By Emmanuel Okogba Super Eagles of Nigeria and Nantes forward, Moses Simon has been included in the Confederation of Africa, CAF, shortlist for Player of the Year Award. The list has a total of 30 players with majority of them plying their trade outside the shores of their country. Moses who plays for Nantes in France impressed at this year’s Africa Cup of Nations that held in Cameroon and beat other Nigerians like Victor Osimhen who was Napoli’s top goal scorer in the Serie A and the trio of Joe Aribo, Leon Balogun and Calvin Bassey who made it to the final of the UEFA Europa League with their club Rangers to the list. He scored six (6) goals for Nantes during the just concluded Ligue 1 season and one (1) goal during the AFCON. CAF released the list of nominees for the Men’s categories namely Player of the Year, Interclub Player of the Year, Young Player of the Year, Coach of the Year, National Team of the Year and Club of the Year. The winners of each category will be decided by a voting panel made up of CAF Technical Committee, media professionals, Head Coaches & Captains of Member Associations and clubs involved at the group stage of the Interclub competitions. The winners of each category will be decided by a voting panel made up of CAF Technical Committee, media professionals, Head Coaches & Captains of Member Associations and clubs involved at the group stage of the Interclub competitions. The CAF Awards 2022 will be held ahead of the final of Africa’s flagship women’s competitions, TotalEnergies Women’s Africa Cup of Nations Morocco 2022 scheduled to take place between 02 July – 23 July 2022. The event will also coincide with the two-year anniversary of the launch of the CAF Women’s Football Strategy. See full list below… Player of the Year (Men) Interclub Player of the Year (Men) Young Player of the Year (Men) Coach of the Year (Men) National Team of the Year (Men) Club of the Year (Men)    Super Eagles’ First Assistant Coach, Salisu Yusuf has released a list of 30 players, including Captain Ahmed Musa and forward Moses Simon, ahead of the prestigious international friendly matches against the ‘A’ Men National Teams of Mexico and Ecuador in the United States of America. The three –time African champions… In "Sports" By Moses Nosike The much anticipated CAF Confederation Cup final match between Moroccan football club Renaissance Sportive de Berkane and South Africa-based Orlando Pirates Football Club has come and gone but the memories of hospitality both teams enjoyed in Uyo still lingers. Thanks to the warm reception of adoring football… In "News" The Super Eagles’ preparations for Thursday’s 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying match against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone continued on Sunday as 24 of the 27 invited players trained in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Friendly matches against Mexico (in Dallas on 28th May) and against Ecuador in… In "Sports"