…insists non-payment of claims cause of persistent fuel scarcity By Bashir Bello KANO — The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), has on Thursday threatened to drag the management of Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) to court over its recent purported claims on the payment of N74 billion transport claims to marketers. The Chairman IPMAN Northern chapter, Alhaji Bashir Danmalam made the threat while addressing a news conference in Kano on Thursday. Recall that the management of NMDPRA had on Wednesday, 29th June 2022, reportedly said It had paid marketers N74 billion within the past seven months. Danmalam, who was reacting to the purported payment, said the claim was not true as their members were not paid unless the payment was made to “ghost marketers”. The IPMAN chairman, therefore, challenged the management of the NMDPRA to publish the names of the marketers who benefited from the purported payment so as to prove their claims. “I’m surprised to hear the story on payment of the N74 billion claims by the Chief Executive of the agency, Faruk Ahmed Maishanu. Either he was misinformed or he does not know what is happening in the organization. “Who and who were paid the money? I know some of the marketers who are being owed N10 billion each. So for him to say that the agency paid N74 billion to marketers is not true. “So, we can only agree with the said payment if the money was paid to “ghost marketers” or if it is part of the rejected waybill. “The Federal Government should sack this man because he is not competent to hold such a sensitive position in view of the fact that he doesn’t know what is going on there,” Danmalam said. He noted that the inability of the agency to settle the marketers transport claims amounting to about N500 billion was responsible for the persistent fuel shortage being experienced in the country. Danmalam said based on the investigation conducted by IPMAN, It was discovered that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) had recently released over N70 billion to the agency to pay marketers which had yet to be paid. He lamented that before now, their members were being paid their claims within one or two months as against the current system or mode of payment.   The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), on Monday appealed to the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) to pay its members their bridging claims of N500 billion. In "News" By Obas Esiedesa, Abuja  The Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority, NMDPRA,  has said that it paid N74 billion to petroleum products marketers to cover the cost of bridging in the past seven months. The Authority in a statement yesterday denied allegations of insensitivity leveled against it by Independent… In "News" Queues at a Kano filling station (above and below). Photos: Abdulmumin Murtala. By Abdulmumin Murtala, Kano The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) has warned of the possibility of the worst case of fuel scarcity ever in the country. However, IPMAN said, the scarcity can be averted only if… In "Metro"