By Luminous Jannamike, Abuja Angry youths at Federal Housing Authority Estate, Lugbe in the Abuja Municipal Area Council have set ablaze a vigilante personnel for allegedly blaspheming Prophet Muhammad (PBUH). The victim, identified as Ahmad Usman a.k.a. Small Hundaru, was reportedly kept at a vigilante office in the area before the irate youths mobilised and seized him from his place of refuge. They were said to have burnt his body using petrol and a disused car tyre. An eyewitness told our correspondent in that the incident happened around 1pm on Saturday. He said, “The man is a Muslims in Lugbe. He is fond of insulting the prophet, but today action was taken, against him. “The latest case happened in the presence of a small number of people who didn’t take any action immediately. “But when he came out to buy food this afternoon at the Timber Shed Market in the area, an angry mob caught and descended on him. “He ran to the vigilante office near the market for refuge, but his colleagues were overpowered my the mob. They hit Small Hundaru with sticks in the head and stoned him till he fell unconscious. “Tyres were thrown at him and petrol was poured over him before he was eventually set ablaze,” a trader, who spoke anonymously, told Sunday Vanguard. Confirming the incident, in a statement, the FCT Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Josephine Adeh, said: “Today, 4th of June 2022 at about 13:00hrs, one Ahmad Usman a 30years old member of the local vigilante around Tippa garage at Federal Housing Estate in Lugbe Area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) got into an argument with a Cleric (Malam) whose name is yet unknown from the same area.  “The heated argument degenerated into an outbreak of violence that led to the murder and setting ablaze of Ahmad Usman by the enraged mob mobilized by the clergy numbering about two hundred (200).” She, however, explained that upon the receipt of the information, a quick intervention team comprising of the ‘Surveillance and Ambush’ team of the Command attached to the Lugbe Divisional Police Headquarters was drafted to the scene where the enflamed victim was rescued. Adeh revealed that Small Hundaru, who had already suffered severe degrees of burns, was taken immediately to the hospital where he was confirmed dead by a doctor on call.  “Normalcy has since been restored to the situation, while monitoring and surveillance of the area continues.  “Residents are therefore urged to go about their lawful duties without fear or apprehension of any kind from any quarters as discrete investigation continues to unravel facts surrounding the ugly incident and to effect the arrest of the perpetrators therein.” The FCT police spokesperson added that the Commissioner of Police,  CP Babaji Sunday. while warning against the indiscriminate act of self-help in obtaining justice known as Jungle justice, stated that adequate sanctions will be meted on subscribers of the crude and dastardly act.  “Additionally, members of the public are urged to remain vigilant, eschew every form of disorderliness, and report any suspicious or abnormal occurrence to the Police through the following emergency lines: 08032003913, 08061581938, 07057337653, and 08028940883, While the Public Complaint Bureau (PCB) desk, could be reached on: 0902 222 2352,” the statement added.