Two Nigerians have been arrested on suspicion of plotting to harvest the organs of a child in the UK.Beatrice, 55, and Ike, 60, both from Nigeria, have been remanded in custody and would have appeared at Uxbridge Magistrates’ Court today. They are both charged with conspiracy to arrange or facilitate travel of another person with a view to exploitation, namely organ harvesting. NAPTIP investigates human organ harvesting in Nigeria The Met said a child has been safeguarded. Scotland Yard has not given the gender or the age  of the child – or the location of the arrests. But given the suspects are appearing in court in Uxbridge, it is likely they were held at the nearby Heathrow Airport.  Organ harvesting involves removing parts of the body, often for cash and against the victim’s will. The investigation was launched after detectives were alerted to potential offences under modern slavery legislation in May 2022, the force said. In 2017 a former Nigerian government minister claimed that migrants from his country were having their organs harvested after being sold into slavery. Femi Fani-Kayode, a onetime aviation minister in Nigeria, claimed that 75 per cent of slaves who have their organs harvested in North Africa are from his country. The Cambridge University-educated lawyer added that the victims have their ‘bodies mutilated’ and are ‘roasted like suya [shish kebabs]’. He went on: ‘Roasted alive! This is what Libyans do to sub-Saharan Africans who are looking for a transit point to Europe.“They sell them into slavery and either murder, mutilate, torture or work them to death.”(MailOnline) Vanguard News   The Metropolitan Police in London on Thursday said Beatrice Nwanneka Ekweremadu, 55, and Ike Ekweremadu, 60, have been remanded. According to reports, the duo have been remanded in custody and will appear at Uxbridge Magistrates' Court today. A source who is very close to the Ekweremadu family confirmed the incident.… In "Latest News" By Chinonso Alozie, Owerri Operatives of the Imo State Police Command have arrested a man and his wife for allegedly chaining their seven-year-old boy, Kelechi Nwosu, and dumping him in a room. The couple, 30-year-old Chimezie Nwosu and his 26-year-old wife, Victoria Nwosu, were arrested around the World Bank area… In "Metro" . By Okoh Aihe THE nightmare which all regulators fear came upon the National Broadcasting Commission, NBC, last week. Unable to accept the depth of weakness in the new Nigeria Broadcasting Code which was largely pilloried by all, the NBC allowed itself to be dragged to court by an aggrieved… In "Columns"