.Appeals for waste containerisation By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos Waste Management Authority, LAWMA, has reassured residents of firm commitment to a clean environment in the state despite the challenge of diesel scarcity . It however, appealed to residents to always bag and containerise their waste for seamless evacuation. Managing Director of LAWMA, Mr. Ibrahim Odumboni, stated this on Friday while monitoring the environment, adding that efforts were being intensified, to clear any backlog of refuse, and to stop acts of indiscriminate waste disposal around the city. He said: “We have redoubled our efforts, working round the clock to ensure that we evacuate all waste anywhere around the city. Although the scarcity and high cost of diesel has been a major challenge, as all service providers’ trucks run on diesel, nonetheless, we are doing the needful and leaving no stone unturned, to maintain a clean environment and prevent health hazard to the people. “Over preceding months, we have rolled out advocacy and media sensitisation campaigns, to inform and educate residents on the importance of environmental cleanliness, particularly the act of waste containerisation. We have also supported efforts of PSP operators, by providing backup services in areas that experienced service gaps, with the overall aim of eradicating black spots across the metropolis. “I therefore, appeal to residents to properly bag and containerise their waste to allow more storage period and prevent littering.” According to Odimboni: “The resurgence of waste observed in some areas of the metropolis is borne out of the unforeseen diesel challenges the service providers are experiencing, and since tenements cannot keep waste in their houses, have resorted to bringing it to the highways, which isn’t proper.” “While we strongly reiterate the importance of waste containers at home, we passionately appeal and canvass for public cooperation, to combat a resurgence of waste on road medians, canals and other illegal spots.” “We are assuring Lagosians of our total commitment to rid the environment of dirt. As we work day and night to make this happen, we urge you to support our efforts because the cleanliness of the state is a collective responsibility”, he stressed. LAWMA boss noted further that despite the serious logistics challenges faced by Private Sector Participant, PSP operators, as a result of the increase in the price of diesel, they had continued to provide services to tenements, adding that the Authority, in order to ensure effective turnaround time of waste collection trucks, had also ensured that landfills in the state are in proper shape. “Before now, we had carried out massive rehabilitation work across our various landfills, to improve the turnaround time of PSP trucks servicing tenements and commercial facilities in the state. “This has improved condition of the sites, paving way for seamless waste collection activities.”   MD LAWMA, Odumboni By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos Waste Management Authority, LAWMA, has directed Private Sector Participants, PSP, operators on a 24 hour operation for prompt evacuation of refuse during and after the solemn Easter festivities. LAWMA said the measure has become necessary as it expected100 per cent increase in waste… In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Government has embarked on zero tolerance enforcement against operation of cart pushers for constituting security threats to members of the public. This came as Lagos Waste Management Authority, LAWMA, said it has destroyed over 400 carts, confiscated from pushers, who serially dump waste at unauthorised… In "Metro" L-R: The Managing Director/CEO, LAWMA, Mr. Ibrahim Odumboni; President, Association of Waste Managers of Nigeria (AWAMN), David Oriyomi; and chairman, LAHA House Committee on Environment, Hon. Desmond Elliott, during a One-day Stakeholders meeting on Public Health Law 2015 & Environmental Management Protection Law 2017, with the theme: 'Enhancing the Enforcement… In "News"