Singer Victony reacts to accusative comments from music fans who trolled him of faking his walking abnormalities after surviving a ghastly motor accident in 2021. Anthony Victor also known as Victony, has been chastised by many who believe he made use of the fact that he is not capable of working to become a star, and was being accused of erratically hitching up people’s feelings to get himself into the entertainment industry. Ensuing the singers super-hit during the last quarter of 2021 with ‘Holy Father’ a song with Mayorkun. The singer, addressed these ill conceptions in his ‘One on One’ interview with Pulse Nigeria, saying “Well, it just happened to come at the right time. Life is funny. life is funny but everything just happened. He also said he was not disappointed that people could have such notion of him. In his words, “No, I mean it’s alright. You know we have like smart people and we have dumb people. Dumb people say dumb stuff and dumb people support them. I wasn’t disappointed. I have been seeing it since like last year. To me, if it’s a problem and you felt I blew because of the wheelchair come and collect your own and collect your own fame. I just tweeted it and went to perform. It’s really not that deep.” It would be recalled that, the singer was involved in a ghastly motor accident last year April 26, 2021, which confided him to a wheelchair for a couple of months, while he lost his closest friend Doyin, who was with him when the life-threatening accident occurred. The Holy Father crooner who took to his Instagram page on April 25, 2022, remembered how so many fans, friends and family feared for his life about the day the accident occurred. Victony recognized I’m the course of the time accident, he got strength from God and his fans, also mentioned the Outlaws. He wrote, “On this day last year, everyone feared for my life. I lived in the dark for a while, as I kept drawing strength from God & the Outlaws. “Together we reversed the darkest times of my life into a blessing, look how far we’ve come.Today symbolizes Victory for all OUTLAWS.” The singer who remembered his late friend, Doyin, said, “APRIL 26, #DONYIZZYDAY. Rest in God’s arm, Doyin.” Vanguard News Nigeria