FOLLOWING the kidnap of 20 Abuja farmers on Thursday, the All Farmers Association of Nigeria, AFAN, Friday, warned that it will be difficult for Nigerians to feed themselves if nothing is done to protect farmers across the country. Speaking with Saturday Vanguard, the National President, AFAN, Arc Kabir Ibrahim, said the plight of farmers, especially in the rural areas has assumed a dangerous dimension, and that food production would be on the lowest ebb in 2022, and would degenerate to starvation triggering more crime if nothing urgent and proactive is done as lasting solution to arrest the situation both at the local, State and federal levels. Ibrahim lamented that a lot still lies ahead to tackle food security as farmers have used their blood to sacrifice for Nigerians not to fall into the valley of serious starvation,  who quietly feed over 200 million mouths on daily basis. He said  even at frightening insecurity they still put their lives on the line to go to their farms to cultivate and harvest produce for Nigerians to eat. He said these unsung heroes and heroines deserve to be protected, pampered, and honoured publicly. The 22 farmers were on their farm working at a village called Rafin-Daji in Abaji Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, around 2pm on Thursday, when armed bandits kidnapped them, after shooting sporadically to an unknown destination, while one of the farmers escaped by the whiskers. Meanwhile, the FCT Command of the Nigerian Police Force has moved into the forest to rescue the kidnapped farmers as they go after their abductors.  He said: “It is very discouraging to the farmers to work assiduously to feed the teeming population of our country when their comrades are kidnapped all over the place. “Unless proactive action is taken to protect the farmers as they work to produce optimally to bring about food sufficiency it will be very difficult for Nigerians to feed themselves this year. “Abuja has not been one of the regions prone to these attacks but it is now evident that it is also not spared.” Meanwhile, the AFAN boss called for decisive action to “stem the tide of incessant kidnapping and banditry if Nigeria is to be food secure if at all.”   De …as insecurity, poor implementation of agric policies affect food production By Gabriel Ewepu ABUJA-AS Nigeria commemorates another Democracy Day on June 12, the All Farmers Association of Nigeria, AFAN, Sunday, lamented mistakes in appointing Ministers of Agriculture and Rural Development, as there has not been drastic change in food… In "News" By Gabriel Ewepu ABUJA- FOLLOWING the quagmire farmers find themselves as a result of constant attacks from terrorists, the All Farmers Association of Nigeria, AFAN, weekend, threw weight behind farmers taking the bold step to form vigilante groups to wade of attacks while on their farms. Speaking with Vanguard on… In "News" The duly elected Executives of AFAN in the 36 states and FCT are coordinating the activities of farmers in their various states and the International Community is evidently working with the Arc. Kabir-Led AFAN In "Agric"