By Emmanuel Okogba Former Chelsea defender, Jason Cundy has warned the club against signing Brazil international, Neymar, saying the forward is overrated and does not want him near his club. Thiago Silva had said he would prefer Neymar joins him at Stamford Bridge if he was leaving PSG, but there is still nothing concrete as regards a move away from Paris for the most expensive footballer on the planet. Neymar has been subject of recent transfer speculation following comments from club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi on the forward’s future. Al-Khelaifi had admitted during a recent interview with Le Parisien that sweeping changes were coming at the Parc des Princes and didn’t rule out an exit for the 30-year-old. “Well, you know my thoughts on Neymar, I think he’s overrated,” Cundy said on the Sports Bar. “Good player, but overrated. It’s all about him. Eden Hazard was a team player. “Neymar has been linked with Chelsea for a while, I’ve always said I wouldn’t want him near my club. I don’t think he’s the sort of player that Chelsea need. “Is he a good player? Is he talented? Yes, I don’t doubt that for a second. “But I would not want him near Chelsea.” Neymar joined PSG for a world record fee back in 2017. His reported £850,000-a-week wages could pose a challenge for any club looking to acquire the Brazilian.   By Emmanuel Okogba Chelsea defender, Thiago Silva wants his Brazilian teammate, Neymar to join him at Stamford Bridge. Neymar's whose future is still being debated has only played club football in his native country, Brazil, Spain and now France. A move to the Premier League will be a new challenge… In "Sports" The signing of Brazilian superstar Neymar for a world record fee by Qatari-owned Paris Saint-Germain is "amazing for France", club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi told the Daily Telegraph. In "Sports" If the Champions League final is the European game’s answer to the Super Bowl — and there are some powerbrokers who would love to make it even more so — then most will be more than happy with Saturday’s contenders. Liverpool versus Real Madrid ticks many of the hype boxes… In "Sports"