An average of 11.2 million people in the UK watched the Platinum Party in the Palace on BBC One on Saturday. The concert saw stars including Diana Ross, George Ezra, Queen and Elbow perform in front of a Buckingham Palace crowd including the Royal Family. It attracted the BBC’s biggest audience of the year, peaking at 13.4 million. A huge pageant in central London and thousands of street parties across the UK are highlights of the final day of Jubilee celebrations. Saturday evening’s concert also saw speeches from Prince Charles and Prince William, with Charles paying tribute to the Queen and her reign of seven decades on the throne. Its audience beats many other recent high-profile events – December’s Strictly Come Dancing final averaged 11 million viewers; last month’s Eurovision Song Contest averaged nearly nine million; and the Queen’s Christmas message drew an audience of 8.96 million. The BBC said it had a 74.3% share of the audience, adding: “The Platinum Party at the Palace on BBC One was the most watched programme of the year so far.” The Queen, who has been experiencing mobility problems in recent months, was not able to attend the event herself. It began with a pre-filmed comedy sketch showing her sharing a pot of tea with Paddington Bear, where they both confessed to carrying around a marmalade sandwich. Some 10 million people are expected to take part in the final day of Platinum Jubilee street parties and celebrations across the UK. More than 85,000 have signed up to host Big Jubilee Lunches. Prince Charles and Camilla appeared at one at south London’s Oval cricket ground on Sunday morning. Meanwhile, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have tweeted pictures of Kate and their three children baking cakes in a kitchen decorated with Union Jack bunting. The caption explained the cakes were for people in Cardiff to enjoy at a Platinum Jubilee street party taking place this weekend. The Jubilee pageant, against the backdrop of Buckingham Palace, will involve more than 10,000 people, including key workers and members of the armed forces, as well as performers. A two-mile carnival procession – featuring a huge cast, puppets and celebrities – will move down London’s Mall and past the palace. The evening finale at 17:00 BST will feature Ed Sheeran performing, and the singing of the national anthem in front of the palace.(BBC) Vanguard News