By Biodun Busari Premier League club, Tottenham have concluded a deal to sign Brazilian player, Richarlison from Everton for £50m plus add-ons and set to announce the signing if the forward passes a medical in Brazil. Agreement was reached on personal terms on Wednesday and the two clubs have settled outstanding issues relating to the deal’s structure, clearing Richarlison to make the move he wanted to a Champions League club. Tottenham will return to Champions League campaign having missed out on three consecutive seasons after finishing as runners-up to Liverpool in 2018/19. The North London club had offered players including Harry Winks and Steven Bergwijn in part-exchange but Everton wanted a cash-only transfer. According to reports, the first part of the paperworks have been signed and Richarlison is set to exit Everton four years after he was bought from Watford. The Brazil international has scored 53 goals in 152 games for Everton and should soon be joined at Spurs by the Barcelona defender Clément Lenglet. Both clubs are in advanced talks over a season’s loan for the France centre-half, with a meeting scheduled for Thursday to discuss issues including his salary. Lenglet, who started seven La Liga games last season, is keen on the transfer. The Antonio Conte’s side had made three signings this summer, bringing in Yves Bissouma, Ivan Perisic and the back-up goalkeeper Fraser Forster.   By Miftaudeen Raji English Premier side Chelsea are currently in talks over the signing of three players from the reigning Manchester City. The Blues are keen on signing the City winger and attacking midfielder, Raheem Sterling, just as the club manager Thomas Tuchel lately added full-back and City stars Oleksandr… In "Sports" Everton took a huge step towards beating the drop with a 1-0 win over Chelsea on Sunday which took them two points away from safety. The winner came moments into the second half when Richarlison scored his fourth goal in five matches with a cool finish from Demarai Gray's pass.… In "Sports" Alex Iwobi played all 90 minutes as Everton lost 2-0 to Liverpool in Sunday's Merseyside derby and dropped into the relegation zone as a result. Andy Robertson and Divock Origi headed Liverpool to within one point of leaders Manchester City as their second-half goals compounded Everton's relegation worries. In a… In "Sports"