Nollywood director, producer and actor, Yul Edochie has likened himself to King David in the Bible who had many wives and still attracted the blessings of God. Yul in a long text shared on Instagram narrated that marrying a second wife has brought many blessings to his family and elevated his two wives, including his stardom. Explaining how God works in mysterious ways, Yul wrote “God works in mysterious waysMarrying a 2nd wife has brought me blessings and also elevated my two lovely wives.Sometimes it takes the things we see as disappointments to happen for elevation to come. “It happened many times in the bible, just like the case of Joseph.I’m a man after God’s heart. “I’m like King David in the bible.I communicate with my God and He guides me every day.I wronged my wife May from the way I went about it, and I have apologized to her sincerely from the bottom of my heart, but in the eyes of God things are different. “God blesses differently. His ways are not our ways. Our destinies are different.Don’t be deceived by the white man’s culture. “Same White people that condemn polygamy are encouraging men to marry their fellow men. “In the end, judgement is for God. Even white people don’t understand God fully.Nobody does, actually. That’s why He remains God. “Many great men in the bible had one wife, many great men in the same bible also had more than one wife. “And if that happens to be your destiny God will elevate you and elevate all that concerns you through it. “My wife May just signed her first endorsement deal.Something that never happened all these years. And this came from what many saw as a disappointment. “I have realized that God’s ways are different. Many more deals will still come to her cos she’s a wonderful person. “So is my wife Judy. She has also been elevated. Now widely known, her career is bigger with a whole lot going for her as well. “Let me not even talk about myself. My stardom has tripled. My name is being mentioned in places it never got to before. My children are blessed. “Summary: The ways of God are different. Our destinies are not the same.You may not understand another man’s destiny and that’s because you’re not supposed to, except your own. “If God gives you more than one wife it will come with blessings and elevation.Run your race and put God first in all you do. He speaks to each of us differently.Love and Peace to us all.” Recall that the actor set tongues wagging on social media after he unveiled the birth of his son by his second wife, Judy Austin Muoghalu to the world. Vanguard News Nigeria