By Gabriel Olawale A foremost Pan-Yoruba Intelligentsia Group, Voice of Reason, VOR, has warned that any candidate, irrespective of their ethnicity or region, that fails to prioritize restructuring will not enjoy the support of Yoruba people in the 2023 general elections. Speaking during the swearing-In and Inaugural Meeting of the New Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Group, Mr Olusola Adekanola said that restructuring will not only benefit the southern west as all the regions of the country stand to benefit. Adekanola said: “Those against restructuring are not properly enlighten. With restructuring, everybody is a winner. Before the Military takeover, Northern Nigeria had a thriving economy, people came from Sudan to buy things in Kano. No region was poor, they were sending people for scholarship and military training under the northern region. But soldiers and politician have spoiled everything. What are we left with? The country is finished. “We have to start the rebuilding process through restructuring for the sake of our children and grandchildren. Everybody cannot say they are not concern. At VOR, we are comfortable people but concern about the future of our children.  “IMF is telling us that in the nearest future, all the revenue of this country will be going into servicing debt. Did you want to live in country like that? If you want to live in country like that, look at Zimbabwe, Afghanistan, Libya, Mali is getting there, is coming closer home. We have to get up and say enough of this. Let’s go back to what use to work for us.” Adekanola said that VOR will invite all the Presidential candidates for 2023 election after the primaries to tell Yoruba people their plans on restructuring. He said: “It will not be a mere promise as they are going to put it into written. So that when they become President and failed to pursue restructuring we can show them the commitment they made. “Restructuring is existential issue, if power is devolved today, Yoruba people will not be talking about living the entity called Nigeria. “We need to go back to regional powers that enable Awolowo to be able to turn the Western region of that time into Eldorado. As an organisation, we are not going to relent in our agitation for restructuring because it is our main object as an organisation.” He also condemned some state governments for failing to put to good use some powers within their jurisdiction to impact positively the lives of the citizens. His words: “Why can’t some states like Rivers, Delta, Akwa Ibom strive to have oil bloc because no constitution or law ban them from getting oil license.?