A cross-section of delegates at the just-concluded All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential primary have lauded the party for conducting free, fair and credible elections. The delegates, who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Abuja, said that the party created a level playing ground for all aspirants. Mr Ibrahim Yusuf, a delegate from Kano, told NAN that the election was well contested, while the best aspirant won. He said “for me, I listened to what each aspirant had to offer and I picked the one that could deliver, thank God Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu won. “I am glad that he won because now we are sure that he can bring victory to the party in 2023. “He is the man to beat and we will work with him to make sure that APC returns as the rulng party.” Yusuf called on Nigerians to support APC and its candidate to take the country to the promise land. Mrs Oluwakemi Akanbi, a delegate from Lagos, expressed joy that her choice won the party’s ticket . She said “we did our best and God crowned it for us with Asiwaju’s victory; it is now time to start working for the victory of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. “Our candidate has many good and developmental projects to offer Nigerians, I pray that God will help him to succeed.“ Akanbi urged other aspirants to see the election as no victor no vanquish and join hands with Tinubu to build Nigeria. Mr Okechukwu Obi, a delegate from Anambra, said that although he was not happy that someone from the East did not win the election, it was a primary that ended well. Obi called on the winner of the APC presidential ticket, Bola Tinubu, to carry everyone along, regardless of religion or ethnicity for peace and unity in the party. Mr Musa Sani, a delegate from Kogi, said the primary election was well contested, adding that although his choice aspirant, Yahaya Bello did not win, he would support Tinubu. Sani urged all to forget the past, join hands with Tinubu to make the party great. He commended the convention committee members for a job well done, adding that the level of togetherness was quite commendable. “We are looking forward to a great election and a victorious 2023 by God’s grace,” he said.