Nollywood actor, Chidi Mokeme, Thursday, announced the death of his cousin Nicole Mokeme who was killed by a hit-and-run driver in Portland and his sister Ebele who died at age 48 after battling illness. Chidi who shared the heartbreaking news on his official Instagram page revealed that the Maine State Police and the Maine Department of Public Safety are in search of the hit-and-run vehicle described as a 2016 black BMW X3 SUV with Maine license plates 5614WM and is registered to 35yr old Raymond Lester of Portland. The Police are also asking for the public’s help in locating the vehicle anyone with reliable information can call the Maine Police Department immediately. He wrote,  “Gone Too Soon! “It’s been a crazy couple of days as our family mourns the loss and transition of our angels. “It is with profound sadness that I share with you the untimely and unfortunate passing of my immediate younger sister Ebele Mokeme Uche-Nwene, who would have been 48yrs next month and My Cousin Nicole Mokeme, 35. While Ebele lost her battle to illness, Nicole was killed by a hit-and-run driver. “May their spirit-filled souls rest eternally in the Lord, and I solicit your prayers for Ebele’s young twins, Nicole’s daughter, our family, my mum, Nicole’s parents, and the loved ones and friends they left behind. I’m compelled to share this information because Nicole’s killer is still out there on the loose. “The Maine State Police, and the Maine Department of Public Safety are in search of the hit-and-run vehicle described as a 2016 black BMW X3 SUV with Maine license plates 5614WM and is registered to 35yr old Raymond Lester of Portland. The Police are asking for the public’s help in locating the vehicle. If you see the vehicle, or have any reliable information, please call the Maine Police Department immediately.”    By David Royal Nollywood actor, Chidi Mokeme has narrated how he escaped an attack by unknown men who double crossed his car in Lagos traffic while he was on his way to the airport to catch up with an international flight. Chidi who narrated the incident on an Instagram post… In "Entertainment" Ini Edo By Rasheed Sobowale The expected fanfare at Aboh, Mbaise, Imo State was not disappointing as Nollywood actress, Rita Dominic tied the knot with the publisher of DailyTimes, Fidelis Anosike. But then, just like an object dropped in a settled bowl of water, this elaborate wedding did not fail… In "Don't Miss" We know the question popping up in your mind right now is, what could Chidi Mokeme be up to this time. In "Home Video People"