By Ike Uchechukwu – Calabar The Gubernatorial candidate of the Young Progressives Party, YPP, in Cross River, Com. Joseph Coco-Bassey has asserted he joined the race to give CrossRiverians a viable alternative platform. Coco-Bassey said it was high time the people become aware that moneybags in politics don’t mean well for them. The YPP Guber candidate spoke shortly after he was declared winner of the Primary by the electoral officer, Chief Uchendu Akaeze at the Party Secretariat yesterday where he scored 26 votes, in the presence of INEC said he was poised to restore the hope of the people. Coco-Bassey added that it was high time the trend changed adding that YPP has given CrossRiverians and Nigerians at large an alternative. His words :” This particular trend must change, we are known for two political parties, but what have we been able to achieve with them for 23 years , what have the grassroots benefited, PDP for instance has ruled Cross River for about 20 years, what have we achieved since then. “YPP has a concept, it is not money that makes leadership, but the people, our message is simple, don’t sell your votes, if you collect 5,000 today how long will it take you, how far can it keep you, we are calling on CrossRiverians not to sell their votes ” I strongly think that moneybags will come to buy votes, but if our people are well sensitized, they will do the right thing by voting the right people in, we have BVAS and a solid electoral umpire in place, all vote will count, if our people vote their conscience, invariably we are going to get it right, the people are tired of the old faces, he said. Explaining further, he said “I have departed from my comfort zone, I worked in public service for 17 years with INEC, I just resigned a month ago , because I heard the cry of the people, I want to restore hope, this is my own way of contributing to growth and development. Speaking earlier, Chairman of Young Progressives Party, YPP, in Cross River state, Com. Anthony Bisong described the APC/ PDP as evil twins that has held Nigeria down for so many years. Bisong said: “APC and PDP are the two fingers of a leprous hand, they are the real reason Nigeria is the way it is for the past 23 years. “We need to cleanse Nigeria of the evil perpetrated by both of them, they have not achieved anything, for the past 23 years they actually have nothing to show, they have no policy to lift Nigeria out of its current state. “We thought by the dawn of our democracy we would have at least achieved power supply, good medical system or even our educational system, for over 105 days students are at home. How else do you describe twin evil? “Infact from their actions, policies they have deliberately weaponised poverty, look at the price of forms, this is deliberately arranged to scheme out young and intelligent people, how else can you describe weaponisation of poverty? When you cannot do anything without godfather. Enough is enough, we must chart a new course for Nigerian youths ,” he said.