By Miftaudeen Raji In the wake of supremacy battle over the Yobe North Senatorial seat, a former lawmaker of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Shehu Sani has advised current holder of the seat and President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan to step aside from the senate seat. Sanni, in a statement via his verified Twitter handle, Friday, said Lawan has attained his peak in his legislative career, adding that the Senate President should step aside for a young man. He said, “My friend Senator Ahmed Lawan has attained the peak of his parliamentary ‘career or ambition’.He should step aside and allow the young man to replace him. Over two decades in the National Assembly is ok. Not many are so fortunate in life.” Vanguard recalls that the candidate, who won the ticket of All Progressives Congress, APC in the Yobe North Senatorial District, Bashir Michina and Lawan have been at loggerhead over the Yobe North senatorial seat after the fall-out of the APC presidential primary. Lawan contested for the APC presidential primary on June 7th, but lost to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the flag bearer of the party in the February 2023 presidential election. Although political indications have yet to fully emerge, there seems to be political horse trading in the background to return the Senate President to his seat in the Yobe North. But, Michina, while speaking on Politics Today on Channels TV, Wednesday, has argued that Lawan did not participate in the Yobe North APC primary election. When asked who were the people mounting pressure on him to step down, Michina simply said the information about pressure being mounted on him was speculative. He said, “It is specifically speculative in the sense that maybe some people are agitating for someone to come and take the ticket given to me by the electorate. There wasn’t any clear cut person or message directly that says I should step down.” Michina said he was informed by the party Headquarters that he should write formally to inform the party secretariat if he was still in the race and eligible candidate for the Yobe North seat. He said he had formally obliged the request of the party headquarters by officially writing to inform that party that he is still the bona-fide candidate and active in the race for Yobe North Senatorial seat. Michina experience as lawmaker Michina expressed confidence in what he described as his wealth of experience and legislative background. He was elected as a member of the House of Representatives in 1992 on the platform of Social Democratic Party, SDP. Pioneer National Auditor of the defunct Action Congress, AC and Deputy National Auditor of the People’s Democratic Party between 2002 and 2006. His immediate first appointment, Machina was Chairman, governing board of the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC). The former lawmaker of the green chambers said his people recognized him as the genuine and one of the very senior members of the party, who will conveniently represent them in the National Assembly as a senator. Michina, who believes he has also garnered legislative experience, is kicking against ceding his ticket to Lawan, a sitting President of the Senate, who has been in the Senate since 1999.