Malacia, who shares an agent with fellow Man Utd target Frenkie de Jong, looks set to move to Old Trafford for a reported £15 million fee plus £2m in potential add-ons, making him the club’s first signing of the summer. Man Utd hijacked the deal from Lyon, with West Ham also among those interested, but who is the player that they’ll be getting in that deal? The 22-year-old Dutch defender is primarily a left-back, having started there for both Feyenoord and the Dutch national team. Malacia is a left-sided defender, with his left foot being his dominant as he roams down that side of the pitch. Born in Rotterdam, Malacia joined Feyenoord’s youth academy in 2008 at the age of nine. He signed his first professional contract in 2015 and made his debut two years later in a Champions League win over Napoli. He went a full 90 minutes in that clash with the Serie A side on Decembet 6, 2017, earning the chance to make his Eredivisie debut seven days later against Heerenveen. In total, he has made 136 appearances for Feyenoord, scoring four times. Trophy-wise, Malacia and Feyenoord earned the KNVB Cup in 2017-18 and the Johann Cruyff Shield in 2018. He was a member of the Feyenoord team that made it all the way to the finals of the UEFA Conference League’s inaugural iteration, falling to Roma in the final. Malacia played 88 minutes of that final and was named to UEFA’s Team of the Tournament for his efforts throughout the club’s run. Malacia has represented the Netherlands all the way from the youth level to the senior team. Born in the Netherlands to a Curacaoan father and Surinamese mother, Malacia has represented the country of his berth since earning his first U-16 call-up in 2014. He went on to play for the U-17s, 18s, 19s, 20s and 21s before finally earning his senior debut in 2021 against Montenegro. He’s gone on to earn five senior caps. The deal to bring Malacia to Man Utd was far from a foregone conclusion as the club seemingly swooped in at the last moment. Malacia looked bound for Lyon until Ten Hag’s side came in with a late offer to tempt him to Old Trafford. West Ham are also said to have been interested in hijacking the deal, giving the left-back no shortage of suitors. Malacia was reportedly high on Ten Hag’s list to sign even when he was Ajax manager, with the deal a sign of the pull Ten Hag has when it comes to recruitment so far. Goal.com   Tyrell Malacia Manchester United have accelerated their interest in Feyenoord left-back Tyrell Malacia in an attempt to beat Lyon to a deal in the region of £13 million. Erik ten Hag had heavily scouted the 22-year-old as Ajax manager, appreciating his speed, positional awareness, high interception rate, and ability to… In "Sports" By Miftaudeen Raji English Premier side Chelsea are currently in talks over the signing of three players from the reigning Manchester City. The Blues are keen on signing the City winger and attacking midfielder, Raheem Sterling, just as the club manager Thomas Tuchel lately added full-back and City stars Oleksandr… In "Sports" LONDON (AFP) - Premier League fans have been treated to dazzling displays from some of the world's best players over the last nine months. And with the season at an end, AFP London Sports Desk unveils its team of the year: In "Sports"