By Biodun Busari Fresh reports obtained from the international passport of David Ukpo Nwamini, the supposed organ donor to the daughter of former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu revealed he (Nwamini) is 21 years old. The travelling passport disclosed that Nwamini is 21-year-old, however, an investigation by Metropolitan Police claimed he is 15 years old . Ekweremadu and his wife, Beatrice Nwanneka Ekweremadu were arrested and detained in the United Kingdom for allegedly trafficking Nwamini for harvesting organ for their ailing child suffering from kidney failure. They were arraigned before Uxbridge Magistrates’ Court but denied bail. Ekweremadu had written the United Kingdom High Commission ahead of the visit and backed Nwamini’s visa application on the claim that he was coming to the United Kingdom for medical investigation in regards to an organ transplant. However, it appeared that the boy was inappropriate to be a donor on the account that he claimed that he was 15 and was trafficked to the United Kingdom by the Ekweremadus. However, evidence now available through his travelling passport has shown that Nwamini is actually 21, having been born on October 12, 2000. The revelation of his age as 21 is expected to bring succour to the politician and his family held by the Metropolitan Police in UK.   FOLLOWING the ongoing quagmire in the alleged purported Organ harvest against the former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Enugu West, a  letter dated December 28, 2021, signed by him and addressed to the Visa Section of the British High Commission in Abuja has… In "News" By Evelyn Usman & Henry Ojelu Gavin Irwin, lawyer to former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, told Uxbridge Magistrates’ Court that the Senator had led a blameless life, and that the allegations against him were "nothing short of preposterous". Ekweremadu and his wife Beatrice, were, yesterday, remanded in the UK… In "Don't Miss" By Evelyn Usman, Henry Ojelu Former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, and his wife Beatrice, were, yesterday, remanded in the UK Police custody, after they were arraigned before the Uxbridge Magistrates’ Court for alleged conspiracy to facilitate the travel of another person for organ harvesting. The UK Metropolitan Police had,… In "Metro"