Online Publisher, Jackson Ude has again spoken on the rumoured affair between BBnaija’s Pere Egbi and the First Lady of Kogi State, Rashida Yahaya Bello, threatening to release a video of the Big Brother Naija ‘shine ya eyes’ finalist this time. You would recall that the Nollywood Actor was called out on Twitter a few days back by Jackson Ude who questioned why the reality star was all over places with Rashida Yahaya Bello. In a now-deleted tweet, Jackson Ude added that the gist making rounds is that Rashida had gifted Egbi N5 million naira when they first met. He wrote “Why is #BBNaija Pere Egbi all over the place with Kogi First Lady, Rashida Bello? Gist around Abuja says that they are lovers. Egbi and Mrs Bello are said to have been sighted severally at the Hilton Hotel Abuja. The gist is that when they first met, First Lady gifted Egbi N5 million”. In a swift reaction, Pere Egbi denied the allegation and threatened legal action against the journalist. He described the publication as a demonic lie and a figment of a diseased imagination of Jackson. “For the records, the publication about me and the First Lady of Kogi State is a demonic lie and a figment of a diseased imagination of Jackson Ode and those retweeting that rubbish, they must answer me in court both in Nigeria and in the United States of America where he is based”. Well, it seems Jackson has more to tell Netzicians as he again took to his Twitter page to question who the actor is as he advised him to keep quiet else he will release a video of him and the First Lady of Kogi state. Clarifying the reason why he deleted his first tweet, he stated that senior officials pleaded with him to do so but he is ready to release it if the actor tries tackling him. He tweeted, “Who the hell is #BBNaija Pere Egbi? They better advice him to keep quiet. If I hear or see my name on his mention again, I will release the video and damn it. I deleted earlier tweet because senior officials pleaded. But if he wants to flex muscles with me, try me!”.