A peace ambassador, Kingsley Muturu has won the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary election for Bomadi state constituency in Delta State. Ambassador Muturu, who hails from Bomadi Community in Bomadi LGA, Delta State, polled 32 votes to defeat his closest challenger Ojoto Okubo, who scored 12 votes in what has been described as a transparent, peaceful and keenly-contested  primary election. The primary election is preparatory to 2023 general election into the state House of Assembly. Muturu, who has been described by his supporters as a passionate philanthropist attributed his victory to God and the will of the people of Bomadi. He promised to engage in a massive door-to-door campaign because according to him, the work ahead is daunting. “We dedicate this victory to God and to the common people of Bomadi who did not forget where we are coming from. The work ahead is huge. Now the real work starts. We shall not relent. We are going to leverage on the enthusiasm of the common people to see someone close to them represent them at the state house of assembly; someone they know has their interest at heart. “We can see victory ahead. God has willed it and the people will perfect it during the 2023 general election,” Ambassador Muturu said. Speaking after the victory, a supporter of Ambassador Muturu, Comrade Accra Andrew lamented the poor representation and lack of any dividends of democracy. The people of Bomadi have suffered since the return to democracy in 1999. According to him, despite having some political big wigs from Bomadi in government, there is nothing the people can boast of in terms of infrastructure. “The senator representing our senatorial district is from Bomadi. We have a member of House of Reps from here, there is also a member of the state house of assembly. We have two commissioners and some special advisers, but Bomadi cannot boast of electricity, no cottage hospital, no borehole for potable water. In fact there is nothing on ground to suggest that these people come from here. “This explains the wild jubilation you witnessed when Ambassador Muturu emerged as the candidate of APC for House of Assembly because as a private citizen with just his foundation, he has been able to touch lives. He has given scholarships to those that wouldn’t have been able to go to school, he has paid hospital bills for widows and the aged, he has intervened in many ways than one to provide the most basic of things to the Downtrodden here. “In fact, there are some aged people that he gives stipends at the end of the month. So you could now know the reason for the jubilation and optimism by the poorest of the poor in Bomadi. This shows the huge support he enjoys amongst the voters and the hope he inspires even amongst the youths. I can assure you that Ambassador, being on the ballot for this election is the best thing that has happened to Bomadi people in a long while and the people have vowed that all his good works in this community shall not go unrewarded,” Comrade Andrew enthused.