Former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode on Sunday shared a video of his sons with their mother, Precious Chikwendu, his estranged wife which hinted that the pair may have settled their differences regarding co-parenting. Sharing the Video on his verified Instagram page, the politician described the moment as a beautiful sight to behold. He wrote; “My sons spent the day with their mother yesterday! What a beautiful sight it was! Love, peace and joy all around! Thanks be to God. @snowhiteey , Thanks Mama Aragorn,” he wrote. A post shared by Femi Fani-Kayode (Sadauki) (@real_ffk) Meanwhile, Precious Chikwendu who also shared a video of her and the kids thanked her estranged husband for giving her the opportunity to reunite with their kids. Vanguard reports that Fani Koyede and Chikwendu have been in a legal tussle for the custody of the four children since their marriage hit the rock in 2020 over Chikwendu’s claim of domestic violence and Fani-Kayode’s counterclaim of infidelity. In the post, Chikwendu disclosed that Fani-Kayode may have a change of mind and is working out a process for peaceful co-parenting as wars always have a long-lasting effect on both parties regardless. “This is a win for us all, I have gone from not seeing them AT ALL for 2years to spending a few hours (Play Date) with them and also tending to one who wasn’t well as at the time I was reached,” she added “That is all that it is currently, but I believe their Father has a change of mind and is working out a process for peaceful co-parenting as wars always have a long-lasting effect on both parties regardless. “Please be patient with me as I am basking in this little joy and win for a little longer as well as soaking it all in as I figure a way to put all issues to rest without drama. “Thank you all so very much for the messages and well wishes. Thanks to my concerned elders. “Their Father (through his aides) and some good people around him are in talks to see to it that my children grow up having balanced love and affection from both sides. “I am hoping this leads to an end in media wars and to a peaceful co-parenting as we move on to achieve our various destinies apart.” A post shared by Precious Chikwendu (@snowhiteey)