Movement for Good Governance in Nigeria, MGGN, a nonpartisan organization, has endorsed the governorship candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, in Rivers State, Prince Ugo Beke, describing him as a determined personality with comparative knowledge of contemporary development. The group in a statement signed by its Convener Mr. Nwaonyeche ThankGod said following a close assessment of the governorship candidates in Rivers it adopted Beke given his versatility. The statement said: “Beke is needed in Rivers because of his financial and managerial evidential qualities. Beke is currently on the board of Abuja Investment and Infrastructural Agency, consults, and works for African Union, AU. “Academically, Ugo Beke had his primary education at Saint Andrew’s Primary School, Port Harcourt; secondary school at County Grammar School, Ikwerre/Etche and proceeded to University of Buckingham, England, United Kingdom where he acquired A’ Level Certificate and University Degree on Economics and Politics respectively. “Beke represented the entire Southern Nigeria in the preparation of Nigeria’s 2nd Peer Review Mechanism Report, 2022 already submitted to African Union, United Nations, World Bank, and other world international bodies by the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammad Buhari. “We believe that with Prince Ugo as a self-established, intelligent and vibrant economic and political personality when elected, Rivers State will be equated with some cities in the United States. “ We have directed our members across the twenty three local government areas, wards, and units of the state to support this great leader who has made himself available to serve the people with the aim and objective of quality leadership through Good Governance beyond the shore of APC and PDP.”   Ugo Beke By Jeremiah UrowayinoGovernorship candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, Prince Ugo Beke, has said he would focus on human capacity building and resource management as governor. He particularly pledged to build oil and gas cities in riverine communities to provide a sustainable economy for those in riverine… In "News" The governorship candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, in Rivers State, Prince Ugo Beke, has called on the people of the state to participate in the ongoing Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Continuous Voters Registration (CVR) exercise.  Beke made the appeal  in a chat with newsmen.He said it’s important… In "News" Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. By Davies Iheamnachor Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, may declare his interest to join the 2023 presidential race on Saturday. The All Progressives Congress, APC, in Rivers State will be organising a thanksgiving programme on the said date and the Minister is expected to grace… In "News"