By Levinus Nwabughiogu-Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has urged the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila remain patriotic to Nigeria like he has always shown. The President noted that Gbajabiamila as Speaker of the House has positively changed the public perception of the relationship between the legislature and the executive. Buhari spoke at a special prayer session organized in honour of the Speaker to mark his 60th birthday at the Ansar-Ud-Deen central Mosque, Wuse 2, Abuja on Saturday.  The President was however represented by his Chief of Staff, Prof Ibrahim Gambari at the occasion. He said: “The message from Mr. President is to congratulate you on your 60th birthday. He also wants to urge you to continue to serve the country well.” The President further said that the House of Representatives under Gbajabiamila has ensured a good working relationship with the Executive arm against the notion in some quarters that the National Assembly should “be antagonistic to the Executive.” He also said President Buhari wanted to assure Nigerians that he did not have any intention to subvert the constitution to extend his tenure in office. “President Buhari also wanted to reiterate his belief in the aspiration for a peaceful and a united Nigeria”, Prof Gambari said. On his part, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu also described the Speaker of the House of Representatives Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila as a patriotic Nigerian, who used his position to enhance good governance. Tinubu, who is also the National Leader of APC, said God has made it possible for Gbajabiamila to impact positively on the lives of Nigerians through the Legislature. The APC presidential candidate prayed for God to continue to bless and grant the Speaker long life and wisdom to serve Nigeria better. “May God continue to give you good health. May He also answer your prayers. Only God will put us on the right path and continue to guide us through life to overcome the problem of leadership. “May God give you good health to work for Nigeria. It is a complex country that you have to navigate through. May Allah in His infinite mercy give us the stability, the peace to govern; the love that we share for one another, the patriotism that will make us proud of our country,” he said. The Chief Imam of the Ansar-Ud-Deen Mosque, Dr. Musa Olaofe, who led the prayers for Gbajabiamila, prayed Allah to protect and guide the Speaker. In a short lecture on leadership, good governance and tolerance, Dr. Olaofe said Nigeria is difficult to govern due to its nature. He added that with good leadership, there will be good governance, urging Nigerians to be tolerant with one another for meaningful progress. He noted that Gbajabiamila was a unifier as he brought people from different parts of the country together to work with him.  Imam Olaofe stressed that the Qur’an admonishes Muslims to be good and lenient to all human beings, saying the Speaker represents both. In his votes of thanks, Gbajabiamila expressed gratitude to the president for his kind words and for delegating his Chief of Staff to attend the prayer session. The Speaker also said that he owed his political journey to God through Tinubu, whom he said the Almighty Allah used to uplift him and many others politically and otherwise. Gbajabiamila equally thanked his mother, Hajiya Lateefat Olufunke Gbajabiamila, who raised him in a good manner as well as his wife, Salamatu, who organized the prayer session.  “Let me first of all start by appreciating the president though the COS. Let me also appreciate my benefactor. Many believe that wherever you find yourself, all power belongs to Allah. “But Allah doesn’t come down to give you power. He guides and directs you. In doing so, He directed me to Asiwaju. He did it to me, and not just me, he did it to others too. May the Almighty Allah continue to give you that very uncommon capacity”, he said. The Speaker expressed appreciation to his colleagues in the House whom he said have been supporting and cooperating with him to discharge his responsibilities as first among equals. Many dignitaries, including the Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, the Special Adviser to President, Alh. Yau Darazo, many members of the House, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, Dele Belgore (SAN), among others attended the prayer session.   Praises Mister Speaker at 60 A leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Adeyinka Adedoyin, has described the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila is a symbol of strength, compassion, and dignity for the people of Lagos State. “Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila is… In "News" A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC in Lagos, Fuad Kayode Laguda has extoled the development strides facilitated by the Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, Rt Hon Femi Gbajabiamila to Surulere Federal Constituency. In "News" Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa, has congratulated Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, as they both mark their birthdays. In "News"