AHEAD of the All Progressives Congress, APC, national convention, President Muhammadu Buharilast night hosted stakeholders of the ruling party to a dinner. The event, which took place at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, was said to be a follow up of the meeting he had with the national leadership and presidential aspirants of the party on Saturday night. This is as the President has kept his aides and loyalists in suspense over who is his preferred candidate to fly the flag of the APC in the 2023 presidential elections. It was gathered that last night dinner was attended by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; the leadership of the National Assembly including President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila and other prominent members of the ruling party. The president was expected to use the occasion to press ahead with his desire to achieve a consensus on the race for the party’s presidential ticket before the convention. Recall that President Buhari has maintained his position on having a consensus candidate for the party in a bid to reduce friction. But as at Saturday night when he hosted the party’s 23 presidential aspirants, the objective had not been achieved, prompting him to admonish the aspirants to talk to themselves, reach a consensus and present a formidable candidate. Speaking at the consultative meeting Sunday, Buhari had said: “Looking at this assemblage of personalities and considering your rich pedigree of accomplishments in life, I have come to the conclusion that our party, the APC, is rich in human resources and also that our nation is blessed with capable people that can successfully steer the ship of state into the future.” He added that with his first-hand knowledge of the demands of the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the expectations of the citizens, “I must salute your courage and your selfless spirit, in volunteering to serve in the highest office of the land.” The President added: “Our party, the APC, has won two successive presidential elections in 2015, first when we were in the opposition and in 2019 when I sought re-election. Both processes were achieved through unity of purpose, strategic alignment, consultation, fairness, determination and effective leadership. In both instances, national and party interests were overriding factors in our deliberations and decision-making. “The 2023 General Elections are fast approaching in a global, regional and national environment that is constantly changing and challenging. This demands that our party should become more aware of the changing environment, be responsive to the yearnings of our citizens, re-evaluate our strategy and strengthen our internal mechanism so that we would sustain the electoral successes. “I am pleased to note that the party, recognizing the significance of all these demands, has over time developed several democratically acceptable processes and policies, that promote consultation, internal cohesion and leadership to facilitate victories at the polls.” The President recalled the consultation he had held with stakeholders “that would help the electoral fortunes of our party, beginning with the State Governors. This is the second in the series and I still look forward to meeting with party stakeholders. These steps are being taken to ensure that the unity and cohesion of the party are sustained and to provide direction. “Amongst others things, I reminded the APC Governors of the need for the party to proceed to the 2023 Presidential elections with strength, unity of purpose and to present a flag bearer who will give Nigerians a sense of hope and confidence, while ensuring victory for our party. I extend a similar reminder to all of you distinguished aspirants.” Saying the APC will on Monday June 6, 2022 commence its national convention during which one candidate will be picked by delegates to fly the flag of the party for the 2023 Presidential Election, President Buhari said he was aware that there is anxiety among party members about the outcome of the process. “Given these circumstances, I charge you to recognize the importance of the stability and unity of the party, which cannot be overemphasized. “Similarly, I wish to remind you that our choice of flag bearer must be formidable, appealing to the electorate across the board and should command such ability to unify the country and capacity to address our critical challenges. “Ahead of the Convention, the party machinery has screened and found all aspirants eminently qualified. Recognizing this fact, the Screening Committee has, amongst others, recommended that consensus building through consultation, be intensified. “Without prejudice to your qualifications, I urge all of you to hold consultations amongst yourselves and with the party, with a view to building a consensus in a manner that would help the party reduce the number of aspirants, bring up a formidable candidate and scale down the anxiety of party members.” The President assured that in the interest of the nation and the party, he would continue to provide effective leadership during the transition processes and on-going consultations, “until we successfully make the choice on the candidate that will fly the flag of our party for the presidential elections and make the party stronger. I seek your support in this all important responsibility.” Earlier, National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu had promised that all stakeholders of the party would be reached in the consultation process. Responding on behalf of the aspirants, former Governor of old Abia State and immediate past Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State, and Vice President, ‘Yemi Osinbajo, thanked the President for his leadership and guidance, pledging that they would hold the consultations as counseled “for the unity and strength of our party, the APC.” Meanwhile there is confusion among the aides and supporters of President Buhari over who is his preferred candidate among the presidential aspirants. About five of the aspirants have been mentioned by some people as the President’s choice. The names that appear regularly are the former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the former Minister of Science and Technology and Innovation, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, the former Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba and of late the Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi. Some of the President’s aides that were approach to mention Buhari’s preferred candidate said, “up till now, we are confused, Mr. President is keeping everything to himself unlike the position of the party’s national chairman where he mentioned the name of Senator Abdullahi Adamu before the convention. “All the names people are mentioning are mere guess work. His body language has not revealed his preferred candidate.” Ends