Talented singer, Temilade Openiyi, popularly called Tems, has emerged winner of the Best International Act at the BET Awards 2022, making it the second time the singer is hitting the stage. The Nigerian singer, songwriter and record producer was nominated with other talented acts such as Fireboy, Dave from the UK, Dinos from France, Fally Ipupa from Congo, Little Simz from the UK, Ludmilla from Brazil, Major League Djz from South Africa, and Tayc from France. This is the first international award Tems is receiving for her own record while for the night, she already received an award for her record with Wizkid and Justin Bieber. In receiving the award, Tems gave a brief speech dedicating her award to every young woman striving to one day live their dreams. She said: “Thank you so much for this, thank you so much. It’s an honour… I mean, this is my first award show that I’m winning something and I just want to use this as an opportunity to speak to every single young, old, whatever, every single woman watching this, every single girl watching this at home. Where I’m from, things like this don’t happen.”   By David Royal Popular Nigerian singer, Temilade Openiyi, professionally known as Tems, has been nominated in three categories for the 2022 edition of BET Awards. This was revealed by the award organisers who released full nomination list on Wednesday. According to the full list released by the organisers, Tems was nominated in… In "Entertainment" The global village now enjoys the sounds emanating from Nigeria and yearns for more. Nigerian Artistes on their part are leaving no stone unturned in serving it hot for the global audience who have fully accepted afrobeat. The Nigerian music industry continues to blossom with the arrival of new acts… In "Entertainment" Budding Nigerian singer, Dominic Akoji Usman, known musically as Koji Laynz and signed to Nevada Music Group (NMG) record label has professed his love for 'Try Me' crooner. Tems, born Temilade Openiyi. Koji Laynz, who spoke to Potpourri in a chat avers that his love is not born out of… In "Entertainment"