By Biodun Busari Federation International Football Association, FIFA, disclosed that it has sold over 1.8 million tickets for the World Cup to commencing in November in Qatar. The world governing soccer body, on its website, Wednesday, said organisers have sold the tickets ahead of the next round of ticket sales that opens on July 5. There is a special category of tickets available only to residents of host nation Qatar and fans in the Gulf Arab state have bought the largest number of tickets, FIFA said. Aside from Qatar, the top countries where fans bought tickets are Canada, England, France, Germany, India, Saudi Arabia, Spain, the United Arab Emirates and the United States. FIFA expects to offer a total of three million match tickets during the 28-day tournament, which kicks off on November 21. “With a total of 1.8 million tournament tickets having been sold already – and with less than five months to go until the big kick-off – fans interested in an unforgettable trip of a lifetime to Qatar are being urged to act swiftly before the coveted seats are snapped up. In the event of high demand, a queue management system will apply. “Aside from the host nation, the top ten countries for ticket sales based on country of residence in the latest sales period include emerging and established football hotbeds such as Canada, England, France, Germany, India, Saudi Arabia, Spain, the United Arab Emirates and the United States of America,” FIFA said. This is the first time that the World Cup will be hosted in the Middle East since its inception in 1930.   *It’s the decade of my life — Fatima Al Nuaimi Lusail Stadium in Qatar By Onochie Anibeze Qatar won the bid to host 2022 World Cup in 2010. From that moment it’s been work, work and work. And when the whistle blows for the opening match on Monday, November 21,… In "Sports" Peru vs Australia; Costa Rica Vs New Zealand: Who will return to Qatar 2022 finals? In "Sports" By Onochie Anibeze in Doha On the queue at the immigration early Saturday morning at Hamad International Airport here in Doha, Qatar were one man and his son in Peru colours. 'They are here for their game on Monday', Duro Ikhazuagbe of Thisday said while trying to capture what the… In "Sports"