By Biodun Busari Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has reiterated that he is an Igbo man, but from the South-South region of Nigeria. Okowa, while defending his emergence as the vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party that was condemned by Southern leaders. The governor said this at the Channels TV Politics Today programme on Thursday. Former Vice President and PDP presidential flag bearer, Atiku Abubakar chose Okowa as his running mate ahead of Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike and Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel. In his reaction on national television, Okowa said there is no doubt that he is an Igbo man. Okowa said, “In the first instance, I’m Ifeanyi and there’s no doubt that I’m an Igbo man. I’m an Igbo man in Delta State, in South-South geo-political zone. Secondly, there is no doubt that the South-East has a right of agitation and as the South-East has a right of agitation, the North-East has also continued to make claims to the Presidency because from the records available, both the North-East and South-East have not been able to go ahead and produce a President in this country as at today.”   Vice Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has said the Southern region did not pinpoint a sub-region that should produce President in 2023 before his emergence as a running mate to PDP presidential flag bearer, Atiku Abubakar. In "News" By Miftaudeen Raji Vice presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Ifeanyi Okowa has dismissed criticisms that does not represent the South Eastern geo-political extraction of Nigeria. Okowa, while speaking in an interview with Arise News on the The Morning Show, said he does not only represent the South-East,… In "Latest News" Igbo leader and Elder statesman, Chief Jim Nwobodo has given a pass mark to the choice of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State by the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as his running mate in the next year's presidential election. In "Politics"