Giftcard8 is a company focusing on buying gift cards from customers and have traded more than 2 million. We have lots of customers and partners so that we need collect suggestions from time to time to pursue perfect. Finding the perfect gift for the New Year can be difficult, so more and more people buy gift cards for families, friends or lovers. As one of the most popular gift, as well as gift cards are one of the most popular and convenient ways for scammers to request payment, according to the Federal Trade Commission. Click here to know more：https://www.giftcard8.com/ Normal case for losing ·Someone steals before sale or before you complete payment. Some people look perfectly normal when they hang out in a store’s gift card cabinet, but they’re actually scraping the pin number on a gift card when the clerk isn’t looking. They will record all the card’s information and copy the number. Then, they will put another silver stickers on the cards to make them look like new. ·Information inspection Gift cards is a valuable asset and that’s why so many people will buy them online or other platforms rather than from official stores. So there will be two ways to eat your gift cards. Someone sells you a used card, or the package is damaged to make code information exposed. Tips to protect your gift cards ·Sell gift cards on Giftcard8 app Giftcard8 must be the most reliable platform to sell your gift cards. The rate there is obviously higher than others. Besides, Giftcard8 will take activities every month with amazing rewards. Follow our social platforms ins/face/twitter. Actor Far D Oo , he won ₦100,000 last week！ ·Buy them in reliable channels and platforms Especially for Giftcard8’s customers, eggs shouldn’t be stored as one basket. Catch more channels and be careful about all market messages will help you a lot, which means you have various options whenever you need. ·Carry vouchers as possible as you can When you go to the store to buy a gift card, please carefully check whether the package is complete, make sure that the PIN of the gift card is not tampered with traces. If there is anything suspicious, please change a new gift card. And don’t forget to ask payment receipt and activate receipt. ·Protect your information Someone will check the gift card balance online, but some scammers will stay here to steal your gift card balance when you complete upload. If you need to check your balance, use the website on the back of the gift card. Once you get your gift card, keep it safe and don’t reveal your card information to anyone. Giftcard8：https://www.giftcard8.com/what’sApp :+8618179849917 Email address:Gcard8business@giftcard8.com   How to avoid Gift Cards scams in Nigeria In "News" Why The Shawn Exchange is best gift card plug - Ajayi Oluwadamilare Michael, CEO In "News" To find where to sell a gift card, bitcoin and cash app in Nigeria is not a difficult task. As a matter of fact, you will find a buyer almost everywhere on the internet, on social media, Whatsapp and even in your streets. But just as you already know, trusted… In "Technology"