Gov. Gboyega Oyetola of Osun and the National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Iyiola Omisore, on Tuesday received 10,000 defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun. A factional Chairman of PDP in the state, Mr Wale Ojo, who led the defecting members, said that they left the party to align with a symbol of excellence and progress in the state. “Joining the opposition PDP in Osun is like joining forces with wasters. “Parties that have become serial failures are not worth following for anyone who is serious and driven by excellence. “That is why we have come to align with a symbol of excellence and progress in Gov. Oyetola,” Ojo said. Also speaking,  Mr Albert Adeogun, running mate to PDP’s candidate in the 2018 governorship election, Sen. Ademola Adeleke, lauded the governor for bringing stability to the troubled political situation in the state. “Today, we have come to align with the progressive party to contribute to the great work that is being done. “We hail the governor, who in spite of the lean purse of the state has steady the sinking ship”, he said . While receiving the defectors,  Omisore, commended them for taking the right decision to join the development train of the progressive government in the State. The APC National Secretary, who described their defection as noble and thoughtful, said they were back into the family that provides an atmosphere of equality and justice. “We have received you wholeheartedly and welcomed you into an atmosphere of equality and justice. “We invite you to join hands with us and let us work together for the development of our beloved Osun and our nation.” Also, Gov. Oyetola  commended the new members for taking a bold and decisive step to enhance their political relevance in the state. In his words: “I congratulate our friends and brothers who have made a critical decision for their political careers and fortunes. “You have come at the right time and you have nothing to fear. “You are already members, there will be no discrimination whatsoever. “Senator Omisore is a testimony that our party values people of substance and gives a fair chance to all,” the governor said. (NAN)   Like Ekiti, we won't spare PDP in Osun, APC Chair, Adamu vows In "News" Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for Osun State Governorship election, Senator Ademola Adeleke on Monday, said the people of the state have shown the incumbent Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola a red card ahead of the July 16 poll. In "Politics" By Shina Abubakar OSOGBO—GOVERNOR Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State, yesterday, disclosed that he will never betray his conscience in fulfilling his campaign promises to the people, if re-elected in the July 16 governorship election in the state. The governor, represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye,… In "News"