Shot mass servants survive as Church mourns By Ozioruva Aliu Meanwhile, brave youths who chased the kidnappers were able to apprehend one of the suspected kidnappers who in the cause of the confrontations injured several persons including a woman said to have been hit by a stray bullet but survived it. Meanwhile a statement by the Director of Social Communications, Catholic Diocese of Auchi, Rev. Fr. Peter Egielewa while announcing the killing of Fr. Odia said “With heavy hearts but with total submission to the will of God, we announce the death of our priest Rev. Fr. Christopher Odia, who was killed by his abductors after being kidnapped this morning 26th June 2022 at about 6.30am in his rectory while coming out to go for Sunday Mass at St. Michael Catholic Church Ikabigbo, Uzairue, Edo State. “Until his death, Fr Odia was the Administrator of St Michael Catholic Church, Ikabigbo and also the Principal of St. Philip Catholic Secondary School Jattu. He was aged 41. May his soul rest in peace. “Burial arrangements will be announced by the Diocese later.”When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Chidi Nwabuzor while confirming the developments, said he was expecting detailed briefing from the police in the area   THE abducted Catholic priest in Ikhabigbo, Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State, Rev. Fr. Christopher Odia has been reportedly killed by his abductors just as the mass servant earlier reported to have died has reportedly survived the gunshots and just emerged from the theater at the Irrua Specialist… In "News" By Evelyn Usman Hosts and guests at a traditional marriage ceremony in  Uquo community, Esit Eket Local Government Area of Akwa-Ibom State, will never forget in a hurry the ugly incident that truncated the  lively ambiance on November 4,2021.   While the ceremony was at its peak, some kidnappers stormed… In "News" The Senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress in Benue South, also known as Benue Zone C, and former board chairman of Project Development Institute, PRODA, Comrade Daniel Onjeh, has tasked the Nigerian government and security agencies to quickly address the rising tension in Benue zone C over the activities… In "News"