The presidential candidate of People Democratic Party, PDP, and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, has called on Nigerians to stand with him as volunteers to reclaim the country from the challenges currently befalling it. Atiku in a statement, entitled ”Why you need to stand with me at the front,” said:  Since the convention of our great party, the Peoples Democratic Party last weekend, I have continued to enjoy the support and expression of goodwill by party leaders, members and even my co-contestants after the election. ”I am happy to inform you that in my private conversations with these leaders, the PDP is ready to face the next general election as ONE UNITED force. ”As the presidential flag bearer, my responsibility is not just to ensure that our party returns to power in the presidential election, it is my expectation that I can count on your support to see it through that the PDP wins majority in federal legislative seats, and in all gubernatorial and states’ legislative elections. ”It is a herculean task, no doubts about it. But, I know that with your support, the PDP can return to the winning ways. You may want to ask what are the implications of the PDP winning the general elections? ”Voting for the PDP in the next general election means that you would have done your own part in ensuring that we work together as ONE PEOPLE with ONE FUTURE towards building ONE COUNTRY. ”A PDP victory in 2023 elections means securing our unity as a country and protecting our security and economy, in addition to enablement of cohesive national development. The other political party will come to you with their usual cocktail of deception.  ”But this is not a time that the country can entertain their empty promises. Their scorecard of failure in the past seven years is the only hard fact that you must continue to show to them whenever they come around. That is the only truth about them: their scorecard of failure! ”But we cannot reward their failure with an automatic promotion. They have failed us and we must punish them with our votes. With me in the front together with several other leaders of the PDP and with your support, we will get Nigeria back on winning ways.” ”But why stay at the back when you can stand at the front with me in this historic patriotic mission? You can stand with me at the front by signing up as a volunteer in my campaign by opening this link. ”You may want to tell your friends about the volunteer portal too and together we all get recruited into an army of patriots to reclaim and rescue Nigeria.”