The Federal Government through the Nigerian High Commission to the United Kingdom has hired lawyers to stand in for former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu and his wife, Beatrice, over allegations of organ harvesting. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan who made the disclosure after a closed-door session of the chamber on Wednesday, added that a delegation of the Chamber would on or before Friday this week visit Ekweremadu and his wife in London. This was contained in a statement issued by the Special Assistant, Press to Lawan, Dr. Ezrel Tabiowo, titled, ‘Senate delegation to visit Ekweremadu, wife in London’. Lawan said the decision to wade into Ekweremadu’s arrest and detention was against the backdrop of a briefing received by the Nigerian High Commissioner to London. His words, “I had a personal engagement with our Nigerian High Commissioner to Britain, Alhaji Isola Sarafa, who has done so well to establish contact with our colleague, who has been able to get his team to be in the court at Uxbridge where Ekweremadu was taken to. “The high Commission has also been able to provide some consular services that include the engagement of some lawyers who will defend our colleague. “We commend them for giving attention to the issue at stake. Equally, the Nigeria Foreign Affairs Minister has been engaged here, so that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs takes steps to provide diplomatic support for our colleague. “Because this issue is already in court, we have limited opportunity to discuss beyond what we have done so far. Recall that Ekweremadu and his wife, Beatrice were arrested on Thursday and arraigned at Oxbridge Magistrates Court in London.     Breaking: Senate sends Delegation to London over Ekweremadu’s arrest In "News" Ekweremadu •Lady offers to donate kidney .The Ekweremadu I know'll not traffic minor for organ harvesting —Senator Dickson •Ebonyi govt wades in, we stepped in to unravel all facts •Ekweremadu’s organ donor, serial liar —Psychologist Forensic By Jimoh Babatunde & Peter Okutu The ComptrollerGeneral of Nigeria Immigration Service, Isah Idris,… In "Metro" Former presidential aide, Reno Omokri has offered a heartfelt prayer to former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu who is currently being detained by the Metropolitan Police, London, United Kingdom over an alleged child trafficking to harvest organs In "News"