An Atlanta-based rapper who was referred to us ‘a true voice for his city and inspiration to the community he proudly served’ was shot dead after a night of partying. Mariel Semonte Orr, who went by the monikers Trouble and Skoob, was 34 years old when he was shot dead. According to the Rockdale County Sheriff’s Department, Trouble was shot dead at an apartment complex in Conyers, 25 miles outside of Atlanta, at 3.20am on Sunday. When officers arrived at the scene, Trouble was found lying on the ground outside of the apartment building with a gunshot wound to the chest, according to Jedidia Canty, the public information officer with the Rockdale County Sheriff’s Department. Canty said that Trouble was shot inside the apartment building. No arrests have been made in the fatal shooting. The sheriff’s office have issued an arrest warrant for Jamichael Jones, 33, of Atlanta. Jones is accused of felony murder, home invasion and aggravated assault.  Canty said that Trouble was visiting a female friend at the apartment complex when Jones breached the home.  She said that the suspect knew the female and referred to the shooting as a ‘domestic situation.’  Canty said the situation was ‘not a love triangle’ and that the suspect and the victim did not know each other.   Trouble was pronounced dead at the scene.  Less than a month before his death, Trouble posted about life being too short. He tweeted: ‘Life short af dawg smh Neva know when yo numBa gon be called!’ He added: ‘Be grateful. Forgive – Don’t forget.’  DailyMail.com has reached out to Trouble’s management and the Rockdale County Sheriff for more information on the incident.   In 2020, Trouble was accused of hurting a woman after the pair left a New Year’s Eve party together.  The woman told police that the rapper pulled her out of his car, pushed her to the ground and pulled her wig, reports 11Alive.  She suffered bruised knuckles and a chipped tooth as a result of the interaction. It’s unclear if charges were brought against the rapper. Previously, in 2017, Trouble spent 55 days in prison on a drug possession charge.  The rapper was the source of a viral clip in 2019 when he joined with 500 others at a non-violence event which resulted in a group of police officers getting soaked with water pistols.  Trouble told 11Alive about the event, named ‘Guns Down Water Guns Up,’ saying: ‘I expected people to pull up, but not as massive as it was. And for it to be nothing but pure fun and energy. It’s relative to different cities and different states because people are having problems everywhere…It was a successful event.’ He added: ‘Somebody brought it to my attention yesterday like man you went from making the news for problems as far as what you’re going against right now to being on the news on a positive note.’  A statement from his label Def Jam said in a statement: ‘Our thoughts and prayers are with the children, loved ones, and fans of Trouble. A true voice for his city and an inspiration to the community he proudly represented.’  During his career, Trouble collaborated with The Weeknd, Drake, Young Thug, 2 Chainz, Migos and Jeezy.   The rapper debuted in 2011 with a mix tape titled ‘December 17’ featuring the song ‘Bussin” that achieved nearly 3 million views on YouTube. Trouble released two albums, ‘Edgewood’ in 2018 and his follow-up ‘Thug Luv’ in 2020.  Trouble told XXL Magazine in an interview that he started rapping at 14. When asked which rapper he would like to emulate, he replied: ‘No one. I’m the first and only Trouble.’ In 2013, Trouble was included on the magazine’s list of ‘Atlanta Rappers You Should Know.’ Members of Atlanta’s hip-hop community such as Killer Mike paid tribute to Trouble. Killer Mike said: ‘God Bless the Dead. He was a good man. Gone too soon.’ T.I. and Gucci Mane simply wrote: ‘R.I.P. Trouble’ in separate Twitter posts. Meek Mill retweeted his own message from last night prior to Trouble’s death which read: ‘Ain’t no telling what tomars news is….. stay humble and ready for it!’ Mill wrote this morning: ‘And I woke up to rip trouble…. Everybody texting be careful! Smh rip fam!!!!’ Lil Duval tweeted: ‘Damn trouble was somebody i use to really preach to and help spiritually. And he was learning how to be happy and live life. This one kinda hurt me i ain’t gon front.’ While ‘Love & Hip-Hop’ personality Alexis Sky tweeted a photo with the rapper and wrote: ‘I’m so sorry this happen to you Skoob you didn’t deserve this I’m praying for your kids and family. Sky and Trouble were previously in a relationship together. Trouble told The Fader in a 2018 interview that his first child was about to be born in May of that year. Source: Daily Mail