The final episode of the Big Brother Naija ‘shine ya eyes’ reunion show thrilled viewers to the chin on Friday night as housemate, Emmanuel Umor gave more shocking revelations on his relationship with Liquorose. As we all know, it’s no longer a surprise or news that EmmaRose’s ship sailed a long time ago, episode six of the Reunion offered us an insight into what led to the end of the most admired ship in season 6 of the reality TV show. The episode kicked off with Ebuka Obi-Uchendu running the housemates a clip featuring Emmanuel and Angel, in what looked like a flirtatious moment. Moving to Liquorose and Emmanuel, Liquorose revealed that she walked in on Emmanuel with a girl in a room and lights were off. She said “We were dating, right? And I walked into you and a girl in Dubai. “The light was off, the music was playing, the bed was rough, and the girl was sitting at the edge, and she covered her face with a face mask”. However, Emmanuel who had the spotlight on him gave a shocking revelation that he never asked Liquorose to date him. He said: “First of all I know for a fact that I never asked Rose out. We never agreed to the fact that we were dating. We were never boyfriend or girlfriend and we talked about the whole Dubai situation in which she claimed that I left her outside”. He reiterated that both of them never put a label to whatever they had. Liquorose who denied his statement, stated that their relationship was defined and that she was his girlfriend. She said “It was defined, I was his girlfriend”. Emmanuel denied her statement as well saying “Unless I was not the one in the relationship. “Don’t sit down there and lie against me, I have heard so many and I have been keeping quiet. It’s a lot for me to take right now.” Liquorose added: I am not begging for a man. I didn’t kill anybody, love happened to me and I can’t blame myself for that. God created me this way, I am emotional like that but I am not so stupid that if I am getting a certain vibe I will stick by you. You gave me that vibe, but if you are going to sit here and try and make me look stupid shame on you bro. You even went in Instagram to block and unblock me to make it seem like we unfollowed each other, that is so childish Emmanuel. I don’t unfollow people and I don’t block people”. Watch Video: A post shared by Reality Tving (@realitytving)