Ukraine will hold a preliminary hearing in its first trial of a Russian soldier charged with raping a Ukrainian woman during Russia’s invasion. A spokesperson for the Prosecutor-General’s office said the suspect, Mikhail Romanov, 32, who is not in Ukrainian custody and will be tried in absentia, is accused of murdering a civilian in the Kyiv capital region on March 9 and then repeatedly raping the man’s wife. Romanov is accused of raping a 33-year-old woman after he and another Russian soldier shot her husband Oleksiy at point blank in the village of Bohdanivka to the northeast of Kyiv. The court files said the two soldiers then left and later returned twice more to rape her. The identity of the second soldier had not been established. It was not immediately clear what kind of legal representation Romanov would have at the trial, which will be held behind closed doors. A prosecutor working on sexual violence cases said that up to 50 such crimes were being investigated, but the number of instances of sexual violence by Russian soldiers since Feb. 24, was likely to be substantially higher. Officials, activists and doctors have said that many survivors are afraid or unwilling to come forward to the police and prosecutors with their cases, for fear of reprisals from Russia and stigma from their Ukrainian neighbours. Ukraine says it is investigating thousands of potential war crimes committed during the Russian invasion. Prosecutor-General Iryna Venediktova said many of the suspects are in Russia and some have been taken captive by Ukraine as prisoners of war.    The Russian occupation authorities in southern Ukraine say they have started handing out Russian passports to locals in two cities— Kherson and Melitopol. Ukraine condemns the creation of Russian citizens on its territory as "Russification". President Vladimir Putin is fast-tracking the procedure. Russia's Tass news agency says the first 23… In "Ukraine Live Updates" Draghi, Marcron, Scholz in a meeting By Biodun Busari The French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Premier, Mario Draghi have arrived in Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine on Thursday. Romanian President, Klaus Iohannis, will join the three European leaders as they expect to meet the war-troubled Ukrainian… In "Ukraine Live Updates" A damaged a building in the Darnitsky district of Kyiv A number of explosions shook parts of Kyiv early on Sunday in the first assault on Ukraine's capital for weeks. Russia claims it targeted a site storing tanks supplied by Europe, but Ukraine says rockets hit a train repair plant… In "Ukraine Live Updates"