By John Alechenu, Abuja Former President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, has given an insight into why his administration was unable to implement recommendations contained in the report of the 2014 National Conference, which his administration commissioned. Jonathan offered his explanations at the public presentation of a book on the 2014 National Conference tiled: “The National Conversation”, authored by Akpandem James and Sam Akpe, in Abuja, on Tuesday. The 2014 confab made far reaching recommendations on issues many Nigerians believed, had the potential of reducing, if not eliminating some of the socio-economic and security challenges currently being faced across the country. Read Also: Implement 2014 National Confab report now, Youth Parliament tells Buhari Some of the recommendations include: devolution of powers to states in the area of security and the control of resources among other things. Jonathan’s address was read at the event by former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Anyim Pius Anyim. He said: “When people say I should have implemented the report of the conference, my feeling is either those people did not understand the political environment at the time, the length of time it would take to implement the report of a conference like that or they were just playing politics with such an important matter. “Those who are familiar with the process of constitutional review will know that to implement the confab report, a number of alterations will be made in the Constitution which will require the involvement of the National and State Assemblies. “Such an elaborate review will be termed impossible at the time because at the time the report was submitted in August 2014, we were already on the verge of the 2015 election. “It is also important to point out that at that time, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Aminu Tambuwual who was a member of my party — Peoples Democratic Party, PDP —has already moved out with some members to join the opposition. “That meant that a reasonable part of the legislature was already anti-government. When you know that your parliament is under that kind of situation, it would have been impudent on my part to take such a precious document, which I considered crucial for development, to a parliament that would not take it into consideration.  “Such a task would require the cooperation of the institution responsible for the enactment of new laws and the amendment of some existing ones. “There was no way that could have been done. We were also fully aware that segment of our population were already suspicious of the actions of government. “Our intentions would have been misconstrued, especially against the backdrop of the ECOWAS protocol on constitutional reforms, which states that no substantial modification shall be made to the electoral laws of member states in the last six months before the election. “When I contested the 2015 elections, my expectation was that I would win a second term within which period I would work on the implementation of the confab report within the four year mandate. “My first two years would have been dedicated to the implementation of a substantial part of the report.” Vanguard News   By Okey Muogbo ONE terrifying doomsday prophecy hanging over the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, today is the threat of the party dying with the 2023 general elections. The disastrous misadventure of the PDP in throwing open its presidential ticket in the upcoming presidential primaries has sadly gone further in exacerbating the… In "Viewpoint" New book reveals how regional interests almost scuttled 2014 Confab In "News" Why I didn’t implement 2014 Confab report — Jonathan In "News"