By Juliet Umeh  The registry for .ng Internet Domain Names and maintainers of the database of names registered in the .ng country code Top Level Domain, Nigeria Internet Registration Association, NiRA, has honoured private and public institutions, as well as individuals, promoting the brand. The 2022 award which is in the fifth edition recognised National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, for being the Most Innovative Service Provider Online.  It also recognised Fidelity Bank Plc as the Best Banking or Insurance Website/Portal among other 20 organisations and state and individuals in an event held in Lagos. Other winners in the various categories include: .NG Company of the Year, GigaLayer Web Hosting & Domains; Best Local Hosting Company, Smart Web Nigeria Limited; Best Technology Hub Website/Portal, CoLab; Best AgriTech Company of the year, Groupfarma; Best e-Payment Website/Portal, ALAT by Wema Bank; Digital Innovation State Government, Akwa Ibom State; Best Tertiary Institution Website/Portal, Covenant University; Digital Innovation in Federal Government, Nigeria Mining Cadastre Office ; Best e-Commerce Website, Jumia Nigeria; Best Print Media Website/Portal, Guardian Nigeria; Best Primary/Secondary Website/Portal, Dr. William Kupiec Girls Academy; Best Online Media Website, BusinessDay; Startup Company of the Year, Mydot.NG Web Hosting Company; Best Electronic Media Website (Television), Benue TV; .NG Fintech Company of the Year, ALAT by Wema Bank; Best Electronic Media Website (Radio), Planet101.1FM among others. President of NiRA, Mr Muhammed Rudman, said the Association celebrated the awardees for upholding the .NG brand. He said: “.ng Awards celebrate the achievements and innovation of Nigerian Internet initiatives. The awards promote Nigerian businesses, individuals, charities, and public and private sector organisations which help to make the Internet a more secure, open, accessible, and rewarding experience for all by using .ng domains for their online presence.   By Zeenat Sambo Recently, I read about the inauguration of a 14-man enforcement committee to monitor the implementation of the National Second Level Domain Policy in ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs) at the state and federal levels by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA). I was astonished that after… In "Viewpoint" The Nigeria Mining Cadastre Office, NMCO, has been rated the best Digital Innovation agency with the award of ‘Digital Innovation in the Federal Government’ in 2022 ahead of Nigerian Communication Commission, NCC, Corporate Affairs Commission, NCC, and others In "News" By Juliet Umeh The Nigeria Internet Registration Association, NiRA, has slashed the cost of hosting websites in Nigeria's country code Top Level Domain (ccTLD) the .ng, by forty per cent. This is an incentive to have many Nigerians and corporate organisations patronise the platform, after a deliberate policy by the… In "News"