We hear all the time that for the success of a team or business, workplace collaboration is important. Collaboration is when people come together, work together, and make contributions according to their expertise to complete a shared object, goal, or project. Collaboration is necessary, especially for huge projects because it improves the way how different team members work and makes it easier to solve problems. All of this leads to better performance, efficiency, increased success, and improved communication. That said, we never actually talk about the benefits of collaboration. How can we benefit from workplace collaboration and what is its importance? That is the thing that we are going to discuss shortly. The first major benefit of collaboration is that it helps with problem-solving. When you can’t figure out what to do next or how to complete a project then collaborating with another team member can help in this regard. For instance, if you have made a lot of progress on a project but you are faced with a major roadblock and you can’t figure a way around it. Collaboration helps in this regard, as talking with a colleague or asking them for their take on the problem can help. With the help of team members(s), it becomes easier to solve the problem at hand. When different people share their knowledge and give their take on a problem then it becomes easier to sort out a problem. It might be possible that you might have overlooked something that your colleagues can catch up on and help you with the problem at hand. Sometimes when you can’t figure a way out then talking with another person, be it your friend, colleague, or a random stranger on Chatroulette helps to solve the problem. If certain teams or departments in a company don’t interact or communicate with each other and perform their job in an isolated manner then perhaps collaboration might be the thing that will help different teams closer together. By assigning a project that involves mixed teams, you can make different teams work together. For instance, a mixed-skill project that involves a UI designer, a software developer, a graphics designer, and a content writer will allow all of these experts to work together which help them come closer to each other. By working on a mixed-project, team members from different teams can communicate with each other and tighten connections with each other just as Omegle allows you to communicate with people from around the world and improve your connections with people from around the globe. Collaboration also makes it easier to learn from the skills and experiences of others. When different people are working together they can learn new things from each other. For instance, if some new members of the team and some experienced employees are working together then it will allow the newly hired employees to learn so much from the experienced ones. Collaboration involves different people sharing their opinions, knowledge, and their experience which allows learning within the workplace. Collaboration not only promotes learning from colleagues but also helps toward building a workplace culture of learning and development. The overall productivity of the workplace also increases because of collaboration. As employees start to work together, the overall productivity sees a rise. When everyone is assigned his/her task as a part of the group then they will be more likely to give their best efforts to not let everyone down.  When everyone is well aware of their role in a project and is on the same page, they will get their job done on time and if they won’t, they will create an unprofessional image for themselves in front of a large group.  Collaboration also helps reduce the meetings required in a workplace. Workplace meetings are timesinks that can take on average 2-4 hours, not to mention it also prevents workers from giving their best. Working together has another benefit that it helps to develop a positive atmosphere in the workplace. While working together, colleagues can get to know each other better and also build social connections with each other. When a positive environment is created in the workplace then workers don’t feel like they are constantly competing with each other, instead, everyone will be willing to help each other and look after each other.  This positive and relaxed work atmosphere is not only beneficial for the success of the company but is also healthy for the minds of employees. Employees will feel confident at the workplace and won’t feel like competing with their colleagues all the time. Creating a collaborative workplace isn’t easy, it requires a lot of time and putting a lot of effort into it but the result is well worth it. We were able to just mention some of the benefits of collaboration and why it is important. There are several other benefits of collaboration and when you will create a collaborative workplace then you will get to know the full benefits of collaboration.   The Nigerian Business Disability Network (NBDN) has emphasised the need to respect the rights of people with disabilities in the workplace, saying this would uphold the country’s values of dignity, respect and generosity. In "News" By Levinus Nwabughiogu, Abuja Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) has called on its social partners to ensure that workers' safety was prioritized at work places to save lives. The Managing Director of the Fund, Dr. Micheal Akabogu made the call at a press briefing on Thursday in Abuja to… In "News" By Moses Nosike To help organisations of all sizes and structures in Ghana maximise their human resources (HR) and payroll management needs, HumanManager—a frontline HR and payroll solution for Africa—has collaborated with HR Focus, an international human resource brand based in Ghana, to distribute the HumanManager software across the country.… In "News"