Nollywood actress Regina Chukwu and her colleague, Opeyemi Aiyeola, have joined forces against their ‘greedy colleagues’ who campaign for corrupt politicians despite the hardship in the country. According to Regina Chukwu, these greedy colleagues are paying more priority to their pockets and bank accounts rather than the masses who are suffering due to inability of the leaders to tackle insecurity and poverty in the country. Regina who’s reacting to the massacre of over 50 church members in Owo, Ondo State, on Sunday, threatened to go physical with any of her colleagues who campaign for corrupt politicians in the coming general elections in 2023. She wrote: “If you go beat me, I go chop the beating in peace but your body go hear am too. Enough of all this nonsense! Enough of all the greed!Enough of all your insensitive actions towards Nigerians. Yall are only concerned abt the token they give you ( I don’t care even if it runs in millions, it’s still a misery sum compared to the lives of our people) “Since you people have been collecting this money, what change has happened to your life???? (Koka, kola no ni) it’s time to try a different approach. It’s time to look out for the future of our children. It’s time to get serious for ONCE! “I AM SO ANGRY RIGHT NOW. It’s not making any sense!. And to the non-celebrity too if your mothers are among those people that dance and sing all those stupid songs and be following politicians abt, pls hold them o, help me tell them that they are dancing away the future of their children. Tell your fathers (anon alaga cansu) that they are our problem and this will hunt their generations to come! All hands must be on deck!”. A post shared by Regina chinedu chukwu (@reginachukwu) Her colleague, Opeyemi Aiyeola took to her comment section to hail her, encouraging her to continue using their platform to discourage the insensitive act of their highly insensitive colleagues. “Let’s continue to use our platform to discourage this insensitive act by our highly insensitive colleagues. Ko funny mo rara”. She added, “Plssss loud it oooo”.