Award-winning Nigerian singer, Davido Adeleke, has offered a full scholarship to one Morro Suleyman, a young Ghanaian who got parallel A1 in WAEC exams. Despite getting such an impressive result, Suleyman has been sitting at home due to lack of funds to sponsor his education at the tertiary level. However, there was a twist of fate after an internet user tasked netizens to come to the aid of the poor student. We have contacted Suleyman who lives in Ghana and he has been given a full 4/5 year scholarship to Adeleke university .. accommodation and allowance included ! God bless y’all .. #wrblo pic.twitter.com/13teW8YIUk The student, whose results showed that he had scored A1 in all his subjects, was identified as Morro Suleyman. Davido, who came across the piece of news in the media, urged his fans to help him find the said student. “We have contacted Suleyman who lives in Ghana and he has been given a full 4/5 year scholarship to Adeleke university .. accommodation and allowance included! God bless y’all .. #wrblo,” he tweeted. After the tweet went viral, Davido went on Twitter to ask for the young man’s contact. Suleyman will be studying at the Adeleke University, Ede, owned by Davido’s father on a full scholarship. This is not the first time Davido will be funding the education of the underprivileged.   By Sylvester Kwentua When in 2018, Davido released his single, Assurance, a lot of people didn't take time to figure out that the song was a dedication to his then girlfriend, Chioma Rowland.  For a song that had strong lyrical lines like: 'you’re the one I want oh, before my… In "Entertainment" The global village now enjoys the sounds emanating from Nigeria and yearns for more. Nigerian Artistes on their part are leaving no stone unturned in serving it hot for the global audience who have fully accepted afrobeat. The Nigerian music industry continues to blossom with the arrival of new acts… In "Entertainment" Shatta Bandle the Ghanaian billionaire dwarf, in a shared video online shows off his newly acquired 2022 Ferrari as he trolls popular Nigerian afrobeat singer Davido. In "Entertainment"