Human rights activist and co-convener of the #BringBackOurGirls Movement, Aisha Yesufu has given 10 reasons she cannot be the vice-presidential candidate to the Labour Party’s presidential flag bearer, Peter Obi. She gave the reasons on her Twitter page on Friday to lay to rest speculations linking her as the LP running mate for Anambra Governor in the 2023 presidential election. Vanguard reported how Yesufu endorsed Obi’s candidacy on June 10 on Twitter. She, however, cleared the air yesterday that she is not at a place to serve. She said: “For those who have been asking, here are 10 reasons I cannot be Peter Obi @PeterObi ‘s running mate! “1) I am not at a place to serve. Anything I do, I do with my heart, body and soul. Until I know I can serve Nigeria with everything and be accountable I wouldn’t! “2) I am from South-South, Peter Obi is South East (An all-Southern ticket is insensitive just like Muslim-Muslim one). For many who still do not know. I am from Agbede (Kukuruku empire) in Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State! My coconut head comes from ancestors! “3) I am a very passionate person and unafraid to step on toes on issues of justice, accountability and human rights and there are people who love me dearly and also others who hate me passionately. At this fragile time, Peter Obi cannot afford to antagonise any group! Perception is key! “4) So my support for Peter Obi will do more good than me being his running mate. Those who love me will jump on board. Those who hate me will be able to overlook it as I am only a supporter! (We have to think a million steps ahead) “5) I love campaigns! I can sell someone but I will not be able to sell myself. Vote for me because I am a better candidate! Who told me I am a better candidate?! I can say vote for him or her because he or she is a better candidate. Even in business, I can’t market my goods “6) I am not a process person and not too good with day-to-day management. I am more of a strategist. I can gauge a situation and see an angle people are not looking at or focused on or I can to an extent see how a situation will play out. I prefer working on where my strength is! “7) I will not make a good party person for now because I cannot keep quiet when a party does anyhow because it is my party. They will suspend me for anti-party activities “8) I love the freedom of controlling my time! As a public servant, or elected official or an appointee, I will give up that freedom. I will now have to go to the office daily and on time. I cannot travel out when I want and stay as long as I want if I am a public servant. “9) Also I will not be able to talk anyhow to people who come to my TL and do anyhow because they would be my bosses as per taxpayers! I love my mouth too muchYou people know I don’t subscribe to the ideology of if they go low you go high! “10) The last but not the least is that I will be forced to be politically correct. Not saying things that should be said but things that will make people feel good! No way! I am a person at peace because my outside matches my inside always. How I feel inside is what you see outside!” Obi announced on Tuesday that he was leaving for Egypt on a three-day to understudy the country’s power, education, planning and finance sectors. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) deadline for the submission of presidential candidates and the vice-presidential candidates was expected to end at 6pm on June 17.