The Police Command in Katsina State on Friday honoured a Constable, Nura Mande, who found and returned missing 800 dollars to its owner in Katsina.  A statement by the Command’s spokesperson, SP Gambo Isah, said that the constable was presented with a letter of commendation and N30,000 by the Commissioner of Police, Idris Dabban. He recalled that Mande was on official duty at the state Pilgrims Welfare Board Hajj camp when he found the 800 dollars belonging to a female intending pilgrim, Hajiya Hadiza Usman. “While discharging his duty at the Hajj camp, PC Mande found the 800 dollars on the ground and returned it to the board’s Director of Administration, Alhaji Sada Salisu-Rumah. “PC Mande disclosed that it was his fear of God that made him to return the money to the board’s official so that it could be returned to the owner. “Salisu-Rumah commended the police constable for his good behaviour and honesty,” he added.  According to Isah, the police commissioner was elated over the display of honesty by Maude and called on other police personnel in the command to emulate him. He assured that the command would continue to appreciate its operatives who displayed honesty and commitment to their duties.    The suspected police officer with the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police arrested for smuggling by operatives of the Katsina Customs Command last week has confessed that he is not a police officer but only impersonated to enable him to beat security checkpoints with his contraband items. In "Metro" •Nigerian Pilgrims The Commissioner for Home Affairs, Prince Anofiu Olanrewaju Elegushi has assured the State's intending pilgrims embarking on the 2022 Holy pilgrimage, that the 800 US dollars Basic Travel Allowance (BTA) promised them during the One-day seminar held at the Blue Roof, Agidingbi, Ikeja, penultimate week, would be fulfilled.… In "News" The Katsina Pilgrims Board on Wednesday reminded intending pilgrims above the age of 65 year, that they would not be allowed into Saudi Arabia. This is contained in a statement by the board’s Public Relations Officer, Alhaji Badaru Bello-Karofi in Katsina. The board made this known during orientation for intending… In "Facing The Ka'aba"