Dear Bunmi, I am a divorced mother of two children. Three years ago, I met a man through work and he later told me he was unhappy in his marriage. We started an affair and he became happier and fun to be with. He also contributed a lot towards the upkeep of the house. Towards the end of last year, he had an almighty row with his wife and came to stay with me. It was supposed to be until he sorted things out with her. But now he doesn’t want to go back to his wife and wants to get a divorce, so he could be with me.  I never asked him to leave his wife and I’m not sure I want a permanent relationship for now. As things are now, I’m being accused of being a marriage wrecker, as if it’s all my fault. Is it too late to tell him to go back to his wife? Bella, by e-mail. Dear Bella,   The longer your lover stays with you the more difficult it would be for him to go back to his wife. After being away for so long from his matrimonial home, his wife could have moved on and might be enjoying her freedom. Things might be different if he’d only been gone a month or two. They might be able to patch things up. And don’t kid yourself that you’re blameless – you’ve played your part in the break-up of a family. You can’t turn back time, but if you end things now, your lover might be able to savage something of his marriage.      Dear Bunmi, I was in love with my boyfriend for close to a year, when he had a misunderstanding with his wife and moved in with me. He’s always been responsible for the rent and I was happy to finally have him all to myself. Recently, he told me there… In "Relationships" Fatherhood Dear Bunmi, My husband of over 10 years has been taking hard drugs for sometime now. I can’t express how it has damaged my family; it is just traumatic. I have three children to raise and money is the main problem. My husband disappears for days, tells lies and swindles… In "Relationships" knife stab red heart shape vector illustration sketch doodle hand drawn with black lines isolated on white background Arit was having a relaxed conversation with her boy friend, Jide in her bedroom when she heard some disturbing movements in her living room. Alarmed it could be armed robbers, she shushed Jide… In "Candid View with MagnaFaith"