By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja Chieftains of the All Progressives Congress APC from the South-east under the aegis of APC South-east Front have asked President Muhammadu Buhari and other party leaders to endorse the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan as presidential flagbearer of the party. Rising from an emergency meeting Wednesday night in Abuja, the South-east APC leaders said it would be fair and just for the APC to settle for Lawan as its standard bearer since he also hails from the same geopolitical zone as Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party PDP. The party leaders are from the five states of the South-east geo-political zone. In a communique issued after the meeting and signed by Chief Sam Nkire as well as 24 other APC chieftains, the group said the APC is left with no option than to take a cue from the opposition PDP which picked its flagbearer from the north east. Other signatories to the communique include; Comrade A.C Ude, Barr. Bath Ugwuoke, Barr. K.C Ugboaja, Lolo Queen N Nwankwo, Chief Nduka Onyekwere A., Hon. Tony Alum, Barr. Chijioke Ikpo, Hon. Victor Nwankwo, Hon. Timothy Chukwuma and Chief Chris Chukwuka, among others. Part of the communique reads: “After an extensive analysis of the political developments in Nigeria today vis a vis the outcome of the PDP Primary election a few days ago, the mood of the nation and of course the expectations of our people that power would shift to the Southern part of Nigeria in 2023 where even our South West and South South brothers would have had the conscience to cede the contest to the South East considering the enormous sacrifices the South East had made in support of both zones who took a shot at the presidency at different times since 1999; “It has become apparent that PDP has once again laid ambush for our party the All Progressives Congress (APC) by choosing its candidate from the North East instead of the South East. We believe that this is compelling and still within the confines of equity and fairness considering the fact that neither North East nor South Eastern parts of the country had produced a president in the history of our country. “With this power convolution in mind, we the people of the Southeast do hereby call on our amiable President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR), our great party the All Progressives Congress (APC), all delegates to the presidential primary election to consider and choose Senator Dr. Ahmad Lawan as the candidate of our party for the 2023 Presidential Election, being that the PDP has chosen its Presidential candidate from the North East Zone. “It is our belief that our great Party the APC, will consider the sacrifices which the South East has continued to make towards the development of our Party and the nation in the future. “While we continue to consult and mobilize support, we urge our southeast brothers to demonstrate confidence as this is the quickest route to the primary office of the nation.”