The Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, has warned those behind the killings and abduction of innocent citizens in South East of Nigeria to desist from such heinous acts.  In a statement by IPOB’s spokesperson, Emma Powerful, on Saturday, the group said the judiciary will capitalise on the criminalities in the region to keep detaining Kanu. It further stated that those behind the killings and abduction are the arch enemies of the group and its detained leader who want the Department of State Services, DSS, to continually blackmail them.  The statement read in parts: “The global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB)  under the indefatigable leader and liberator Mazi Nnamdi Kanu wish to reiterate once again over the incessant abductions, killings and insecurity in the Eastern region.  “Our people and those who claimed to be IPOB members need to understand that enemies will capitalise on the killings and insecurity in the South East to blackmail IPOB and our peaceful agitation. “Biafrans should take cognizance of the timing of these heinous and barbaric acts of violence and murder. “Our people and the world community should note that most of these heinous killings happen a few days before our Leader’s court dates. “For instance, the army couple, the house of assembly member, the pregnant Hausa woman. These killing could not reasonably have been done or perpetrated by IPOB. “These atrocities are being committed by people who want to ensure that our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu doesn’t come out from DSS custody and nobody who is genuinely interested in his release will be involved in these criminalities going-on in the South East. “How can the killing of our own people whom our leader Mazi Nnamdi is fighting for their liberation and freedom help in securing his release?  “It will only complicate his case and turn our people against him and against the Biafran cause which is what the Nigeria government wants and working with politicians and certain compromised elements in our land through its security agencies.  “Again, these killings are also calculated to intimidate and blackmail the judiciary who might be open in granting  him justice because our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has no case to answer.” IPOB stated further that the Igbos cannot afford to let atrocious killings in their region continue, stressing that the acts would perpetually hinder Kanu’s freedom and the group’s agitation.  Powerful, in the statement, also said that the group cannot afford resources to exonerate itself from blackmail and propaganda by the Nigerian government, as he added that not even the international community could give justice to five million Biafrans killed during the Civil War from 1967 – 1970.  Vanguard News