A conceptual aircraft, ‘Sky Cruise’ designed by science communicator and video producer Hashem Al-Ghaili has set the tone for a conversation on the future of flight. As seen in Al-Ghaili’s video which visualises the nuclear-powered sky hotel, the aircraft is designed to house over 5,000 guests including crew. Other fascinating features of Sky Cruise include magnificent restaurants, a panoramic hall boasting a 360-degree view, expansive shopping mall, gyms, theatres, pools, wellness and medical services, and event spaces. Al-Ghaili argues that the aircraft is the ‘future of transport’ as it can also attend to the challenge of turbulence – the aircraft’s command deck uses artificial intelligence to predict air turbulence minutes before it happens. When detected, the systems automatically prevent any vibrations from happening by creating anti-vibrations that work similarly to noise-cancelling technology and allow the Sky Cruise to travel over the vibrations in the turbulent area. “I was searching for a 3D model that features a futuristic design of an airplane, and came across this 3D model by Alexander Tujicov. It’s based on an earlier design created several years ago by Tony Holmsten. I bought the 3D model and decided to animate it. I wrote the script and edited the video to showcase what it could look like in real life.” Says Al-Ghaili on what inspired the project.      Vladimir Putin President of The Russian Federation Russia claimed Monday that it destroyed several Ukrainian air-defence systems in what appeared to be a renewed push to gain air superiority and take out weapons Kyiv has described as crucial ahead of an expected broad new offensive in the east. In one… In "Ukraine Live Updates" The odds of dying in a plane crash are about one in 11,000,000. If you’re afraid of flying, then you might as well be afraid of pillows, kitchens, petrol or anything else that could kill you but most likely wouldn’t. In "News" AIB releases three final accident reports In "News"