By Samuel Oyadongha IJAW leaders  have urged the Minister of Petroleum Resources to respect a substituting order of a Federal High Court sitting in Bayelsa State, on the ongoing marginal oilfields licensing rounds. They vowed to take legal steps to oppose the violation of the court order. Read Also: Why FG can’t intervene in rising cost of diesel, aviation fuel – Sylva The court had restrained the Federal Government from issuing licences on marginal oilfields in Niger Delta pending the determination of a pending suit. The Ijaw leaders in a petition to the Minister of Petroleum Resources through the Minister of State for Petroleum by their counsel, Mr. Enie Otrofanowei, said this was to draw the Federal Government’s attention to the subsisting order. The petitioners noted that as parties with legal representation in the suit, the Ministry of Petroleum Resources was expected to show examples in promoting the rule of law and abide by the court order, threatening to take legal actions to oppose violation of the order. The Ijaw leaders had approached the court in 2020, seeking to halt licensing on marginal oilfields located in their domains. Following setbacks and delays in the suit, the Federal Government announced bid winners on the fields on June 1, 2021, and has scheduled to hand over the marginal fields licences to the winners within the week. Trial judge,  Justice Isa Dashen, granted the restraining order in favour of the Ijaw leaders. Ijaw leaders who filed the suit are  Brown Agu (Opu Agu VIII), Mrs. Rosemary John-Oduone, President, Ijaw Women Connect and Mr. Femowei Friend on behalf of themselves and the Ijaw ethnic nationality. Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Minister of Petroleum Resources and the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources are defendants in the suit. The Ijaw leaders asked the court to restrain the Federal Government from further advertising and receiving bids in respect of the marginal fields. They also asked the court to restrain the Federal Government from approving licences in respect of the marginal fields. Vanguard News   A coalition of Ijaw interest groups has called on the Federal Government to abide by the ruling of the Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, which granted an injunction restraining it from taking further action on the award of marginal oil licences pending the conclusion of… In "News" By Emem Idio, Yenagoa Ijaw leaders have approach a Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital to seek for an order of injunction to stop the Attorney General of the Federation and the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Petroleum Resources and the Minister of State for… In "News" Mr. Timipre Sylva, Minister of State, Petroleum Resources. By Nkiruka Nnorom Stakeholders in the energy sector have called on the Federal Government to reverse the award of 2020 marginal oil fields, citing the high bidding cost and signature bonus as too demanding on bidders. Specifically, they noted that the astronomical… In "Business"