Some traders at the Relief Market in Ogbaru Local Government Area of Anambra are counting their losses as flood occasioned by heavy rainfall, washed away shops, electric poles and cables in the market. The Caretaker Committee Chairman of the market, Mr David Obidike, disclosed this during a tour of the affected areas, while taking members of his executive and newsmen round the portions on Saturday. “On one of the nights few days ago, the Chief Security Officer of the market called me and told me that devastating flood from Awada Area, has carried the market as the flood entered under the Sakamori (drainage) system in the market and uprooted it, thereby wrecking havoc in the market. “The damage was much, about 10 shops were washed away with the wares in them, the electric armoured cables, big water borne pipe and telephone cables buried underground were all exhumed and damaged by the flood. “As I talk now we have not gotten power supply for a month now since the rainy season started, and you can’t make a call, the market is in blackout and traders are using electricity generators. “Our market is now in danger because it is situated in the notorious Upper Iweka axis, these hoodlums can easily come into the market through the damaged portions caused by the erosion menace,” he said. He said the only saving grace of the traders from theft has been that it had a team of dedicated security men. He pleaded with Gov. Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra, and other relevant authorities for assistance as the extent of damage done was beyond their financial capability.    A year after residents of Ilo- Boundary, Ajegunle community in Oke -Odo Local Council Development Area, Lagos State cried out to the state government that their community is being threatened by flood, respite is yet to come to them. In "Metro" The Mbamili Diocese of the Anglican Church says it lost 45 of its churches to the flood, including the Cathedral Church of St. Michael in the area. Bishop of the Diocese, Rt. Rev Henry Okeke, said most of his parish priests have been forced to relocate to safe areas, with… In "Metro" By Ben Ngwakwe, Gombe DAYS after Gombe State continues to reel under the devastating impact of a gully erosion that left no fewer than 200 houses damaged and farmlands worth millions of Naira washed away. The gully erosion, which hit Bogo community within the metropolis hardest, is not relenting despite… In "Metro"