Amber Heard is set to released therapy notes ‘dating back to 2011 from the very beginning of her relationship’ with Johnny Depp, which she says proves there was physical abuse in their marriage. The Aquaman actress, 36, handed over a binder of notes to NBC’s Dateline ahead of her tell-all interview with Savannah Guthrie, which is set to air on US television on Friday night. The notes allegedly show that Heard told her therapist that Depp, 59, ‘hit her, threw her against a wall, and threatened to kill her’, but her lawyers were barred from submitting the documents as evidence after the judge dismissed them as ‘hearsay’. Depp had emerged victorious in his recent defamation trial against Heard, with the jury awarding him $10million (£7million) in compensatory damages and a further $5million (£3.9million) in punitive damages, while Heard was also awarded $2million (£1.6million) in compensatory damages. Heard has maintained that she told the truth on the stand, adding in the upcoming interview: ‘There’s a binder worth of years of notes dating back to 2011, from the very beginning of my relationship, that were taken by my doctor who I was reporting the abuse to… ‘Her notes represented years of real-time explanations of what was going on.’ According to Guthrie, in January 2012, Heard told her therapist the Pirates of the Caribbean star had ‘hit her, threw her on the floor’ and a 2013 note stated he ‘threw her against a wall and threatened to kill her’. Heard also opened up about her experience of going to the courtroom every day, with hundreds of Depp’s fans lining the streets in support of him. The trial had been televised, which Heard’s lawyers had tried to prevent, as the actress added: ‘I didn’t want this to be a thing. ‘I didn’t want it to be a trial. I didn’t want it to be a part of the public record but when someone sues you, you don’t really have a choice.’ During her Dateline interview, Heard: revealed she still loves Depp despite alleging he abused her throughout their marriagealleged Depp ‘lied’ on the stand when he claimed he ‘never hit her’accused the jury of being fans of Depp and influenced by ‘unfair social media representation’insisted she will still donate the money she pledged to charity from her $7million (£5.7million) divorce settlementhit back at allegations she tipped off the paparazzi to photograph bruises on her face as she sought a temporary restraining order, and claims she had ‘faked’ bruisesDepp had sued Heard in a six-week trial over an op-ed she wrote in 2018 about her experience as a survivor of domestic abuse. His lawyers have accused Heard of ‘reimagining’ the events of the trial after losing to her ex-husband, adding in a statement: ‘It’s unfortunate that while Johnny is looking to move forward with his life, the defendant and her team are back to repeating, reimagining and re-litigating matters that have already been decided by the Court and a verdict that was unanimously and unequivocally decided by a jury in Johnny’s favour.’ As silly as it is to say this out loud, my goal – the only thing I can hope for at this point… I just want people to see me as a human being.’ Heard added: ‘I will [stand by my testimony] to my dying day. I know what happened to me. I’m here as a survivor. To my dying day I will stand by every word of my testimony.’