A socio-political group in Delta State, Grassroots Concerned Citizens, GCC, has called on Delta State people to rally round Chief Great Ogboru, governorship candidate of All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA, in the state.  The group, which congratulated Ogboru on his emergence, in a statement by its Chairman and Secretary of GCC, Mr. Johnson Akpoveta and Emeni Ndukwe respectively, said that they identify with Ogboru’s courage in contesting another election having lost several times in the past.  They said: “His ‘never give up spirit’ is highly commendable and will yield the desired result come 2023.  Ogboru definitely has something to offer Deltans hence his persistence in the race thus far. “As the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Delta State has failed us woefully despite the huge sums of money allocated to the state thus far, we need the likes of  Ogboru, who is a successful businessman to steer the ship of the state in 2023. “Ogboru’s popularity cannot be questioned or underestimated. He believes that Deltans are capable of achieving success and perform to their optimum if provided the right environment and unalloyed support. Ogboru has a workable manifesto for the three senatorial districts.   Omo-Agege (R) and Ogboru (L) By Emma Amaize, Regional Editor, South-South ASABA- All Progressives Congress, APC, 2019 governorship candidate in Delta State, Chief Great Ogboru, has parted ways politically with his one-time ally and Deputy President of Senate, DSP, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, over the 2023 gubernatorial elections. Vanguard learned authoritatively… In "News" Ogboru A political group, Delta Development initiative, has called on Deltans to give Chief Great Ogboru, candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA in the 2023 general election a chance to rule Delta state now. The group in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Elder Sam Obano said it… In "News" •Ogboru By Akpokona Omafuaire EFFURUN - CHIEF Great Ovedje Ogboru, popularly known as the 'Peoples General' has clinched the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, in Delta state as Barr George Timinimi and Peters Omaruaye clinch Senatorial seats. Ogboru picked the ticket of the party after the… In "News"