This tiny, rocky outcrop in the north-west of the Black Sea was seized by Russia on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, and it has played an outsized role in the war ever since. After more than four months of repeated Ukrainian bombardment, Russian forces have abandoned Snake or Zmiinyi Island, as it is known in Ukraine. Russia says it has withdrawn its garrison as a “gesture of goodwill” to prove it was not obstructing grain exports, but Ukraine dismissed that claim, as Moscow continued to shell its grain stores. Read Also: Putin says Russia not threatened by Finland, Swedish NATO membership The island is exposed to attacks from all directions from air and sea, and the small garrison tasked with defending it – first Ukrainians and later Russians – has been described as “sitting ducks” by military experts. Seized by the Russians on 24 February, Snake Island is located just 35km (22 miles) off Ukraine’s coast – well within the range of missile, artillery and drone strikes from the shore. And Ukraine’s armed forces have done exactly that, claiming a series of devastating attacks on the island itself and any vessel bringing troop deployments and heavy weaponry. In April, Russia’s anti-aircraft capabilities in the north-western Black Sea were significantly weakened with the sinking of the Moskva, the flagship of its Black Sea Fleet. That explains why the Kremlin was so desperate to bring in anti-aircraft systems and radio-electronic warfare to Snake Island. But it became a logistical nightmare for Russia to defend because it was so far from its main naval bases in the Black Sea. For all its attacks, Ukraine has very limited naval capacity, so has been unable to land its own force on the island. Ukrainian military analyst Oleh Zhdanov argues that stationing troops on Snake Island makes no sense for either side as they would become an easy target. Instead, Mr Zhdanov advocates creating “fire control” – maintaining the capability to strike any target approaching the island. That would also give greater security to Ukraine’s biggest Black Sea port of Odesa, and the whole north-western sector of the Black Sea. Russia already controls a large stretch of Ukraine’s Black Sea coast, plus the Crimean Peninsula and the entire Sea of Azov. Holding Snake Island completed an effective blockade of Odesa, and meant exports of the vast majority of Ukrainian grain were impossible. It also meant the Black Sea coast became vulnerable to attack too, and military experts in Kyiv voiced fears that Russia could install long-range air defences, such as an S-400 air missile system. A look at the map also shows that Russian control of the island represented a threat to Nato member Romania – both its key port of Constanta and traffic in the mouth of the River Danube. It is not just strategically significant – this area is also rich in reserves of petroleum and gas(BBC). Vanguard News   A damaged a building in the Darnitsky district of Kyiv A number of explosions shook parts of Kyiv early on Sunday in the first assault on Ukraine's capital for weeks. Russia claims it targeted a site storing tanks supplied by Europe, but Ukraine says rockets hit a train repair plant… In "Ukraine Live Updates" From left — German Chancellor, Olaf Scholz; French President, Emmanuel Macron; Ukraine's President, Volodymyr Zelenskyy; Italian Prime Minister, Mario Draghi, and Romanian President, Klaus Iohannius. By Biodun Busari French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Italian Premier Mario Draghi and President Klaus Iohannis of Romania visited and met their… In "Ukraine Live Updates" The Russian occupation authorities in southern Ukraine say they have started handing out Russian passports to locals in two cities— Kherson and Melitopol. Ukraine condemns the creation of Russian citizens on its territory as "Russification". President Vladimir Putin is fast-tracking the procedure. Russia's Tass news agency says the first 23… In "Ukraine Live Updates"