Fresh election a nullity – UgbomeBy Ozioruva Aliu BENIN CITY – THERE is confusion in Edo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as a fresh primary for Edo North Senatorial district has been rejected by the candidate who won the earlier election conducted on May 23rd, Paschal Ugbome. A letter dated June 3rd, 2022, and signed by the National Organizing Secretary of the party, Hon Umar Bature, and addressed to the state chairman of the party Tony Aziegbemi said a senatorial primary would be conducted on Saturday by a five-man committee headed by Sir Daniel Obiora. In the primary conducted at the public Field in Auchi, Etsako West local government area which is the senatorial headquarters for Edo North, Senator Francis Alimikhena scored 181 votes Pascal Ugbome scored 4 while Tony Ezekiel scored 3 votes. But a statement by Ugbome read “My attention has been drawn to a concocted, wicked and malicious rumour making the rounds, that a purported Supplementary Senatorial Primary has been ordered, supposedly by one National Official of our Party, PDP, to hold today for the Edo North Senatorial District. “To the best of my knowledge and leaders of our great party, this is a strange development and certainly not a decision of our Party even as its illegality smells to high heaven. “Secondly, it has also been alleged in another breath that a certain Senator Alimikhena has paid me for the Ticket and that I have stepped down for him. That is A LIE FROM THE PIT OF HELL. “I am a Lawyer and not a trader and I cannot trade away the Mandate which the honorable Edo North PDP Delegates gave to me on the 23rd of May, 2022.“For the avoidance of doubt, the same Delegates who voted for me also voted Our Presidential Candidate at the national convention. “Consequently, let me reassure our teaming Supporters that I remain the duly Nominated Edo North PDP Candidate and flagbearer of the PDP for the seat of Senator representing Edo North in the forthcoming general Election slated for 2023. I look forward to vigorously Campaigning and delivering Victory to our Party at the 2023 Senatorial Election.”