BIC, a leading brand in stationery, lighters, and shavers, has said that it would increase its social investment in the Nigeria through education, capacity building, and community initiatives.  The company said it has also identified the huge potentials of the Nigerian market noting that plans are underway to build a new factory in order to capture the ever growing population.  Speaking during a media parley in Lagos, General Manager at BIC Nigeria, Guillaume Groues, said: “We are delighted to be present in Nigeria today – a young population, and the number one economy and pan market in Africa. We are investing in the country, from job creation to youth empowerment, to supporting education and environmental sustainability. “We have a lot more to achieve in Nigeria in the years to come and we look forward to being close to our consumers on our journey in this prosperous market.  “Since its investment and expansion in the market, BIC has impacted communities it operates in across Nigeria. Last year alone, BIC reached 25,900 students and 1,200 teachers in 233 schools through its school activation program which aims to support teachers to get their job done by providing them with the necessary writing instruments and material.” Commenting on the performance of the company, Senior Vice President, and General Manager, Middle East and Africa, Peter Van den Broeck, said  despite the effect of the pandemic on businesses across globe,  which confronted businesses with new challenges,  BIC was able to increase sales through introduction of innovative products like the Revolution, BIC Cristal  among others. According to him, in 2021, 8.1 percent of BIC net sales came from innovation introduced in the last three years. He noted that in 2022 it would double down on focus areas in innovation to find new ways to improving customer expectations. He stated: “In 2022, we want to enhance BIC’s consumer insights capabilities and increase the pace of new innovative product launches to drive consumer-centric sustainable innovation.”   Committed to creating 1,000,000 jobs by raising 100,000 agripreneurs across Africa by 2025, a fast-growing agribusiness, BIC Farms has commenced a new model of business geared towards farm investment and entrepreneurship. BIC Farm Estate and Avocado Orchard Investment, as the names are called, will help anyone buy and own real… In "News" ...Identifies Nigeria as leading market in Africa  By Etop Ekanem BIC,  leader in stationery, lighters, and shavers, recently announced its financial results for the full-year 2021 which ended in December 2021. The company reported strong momentum gained across all its markets, fuelled by Consumer-centricity and Commercial Excellence. Nigeria was identified among… In "News" BIC Corporate Foundation sponsors global ideas competition, 'Ideas World Cup' In "News"