Police in Delta have been commended for repelling Monday morning attack by unknown gunmen on Illah community in Oshimili North Local Government Area of the state.  Mr Olisa Ifeajika, Chief Press Secretary to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, gave the commendation during a solidarity visit to the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Illah Division, Mr Bolarinwa Alabi, and particularly lauded the DPO and his men in the division for foiling the attack. Ifeajika told newsmen, after a meeting with the DPO at Illah, that policemen in the community demonstrated bravery by confronting the gunmen and neutralising one of them while the others escaped with bullet wounds.  According to him, the officers of this division displayed the true spirit of policing and I pray that such attitude should live on among policemen in all formations. The governor’s spokesman who was in company with Mr Frank Esenwa, the Peoples Democratic Party Candidate for Oshimili North State Constituency in 2023 elections, said as indigenes of the community, their visit was to commend and encourage the police in Illah for their victory over the gunmen who stormed the community at dawn. On his part, Esenwa said that he was pleased to hear that the police were able to neutralise one of the gunmen while others escaped with bullet wounds.  “We were informed that some criminal gang tried to terrorise this community but we thank God that the police were able to live up to their billing and one of them was killed while two escaped with bullet wounds.  “We have come in solidarity to rejoice with the police authorities and to congratulate them for their bravery.  “Going forward as leaders from this community, we will see what we can do to support the law enforcement agencies to ensure that this kind of attack doesn’t happen again.  “We need to sound a note of warning to them that this is not an IPOB territory and they should keep off this community and the entire state,” he stated. Both men had earlier had a closed-door meeting with the DPO on the incident.   POLICE operatives, yesterday, shot dead one suspected member of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB at Illah, Oshimili North Local Government Area, Delta State, with two others escaping with bullet wounds. In "Metro" Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta has commended Mr. Ejiro Otarigho, driver of the petroleum truck that exploded at Agbarho, Ughelli North Local Government Area, on Saturday, for his uncommon heroism that averted a major disaster. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, Okowa said that the… In "News" Vice-Presidential Candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Governor of Delta, Dr.Ifeanyi Okowa, has congratulated former Governor of Anambra and Presidential Candidate of Labour Party, Mr Peter Obi, as he clocks 61.  In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, Okowa said that Obi deserved to be celebrated on… In "News"