The Board of Trustees, BoT Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Senator Walid Jibrin has said that the problem that arose in the PDP after its presidential primaries would soon be over as plans were underway to meet Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and nip the issue in the bud. He said, “what is happening in PDP can never be compared with the situation in APC especially their plans in trying to bring religious issues of Muslim-Muslim President and Vice president.” Senator Jibrin in a statement on Monday, said “I notice with great concern what the PDP primary elections of Atiku Abubakar and the appointment of Chief Okowa as President and Vice President is unnecessary causing confusion among some PDP members.” “May I point out that very strongly that there is no any problem as being envisaged by some people in our great party the PDP. I want to assure everyone that all plans are on ground to bring all members together as one and united , as what is happening in PDP can never be compared with the situation in APC especially their plans in trying to bring religious issues of Muslim-Muslim President and Vice president.” He noted that some groups were coming up trying to solve the issues of Okowa as Vice-President; the latest group include some former governors of the party. ” And the current governors, some BoT members and elders including Prof Jerry Gana the chief spokesman of the group,governors Wike, Dankwambo,governors of Enugu and Abia states,former Governor Ibrahim idris of kogi state.” “The aim of the group is to reconcile the aggrieved especially Wike. Interestingly the BoT the highest advisory body and the conscience of the party is meeting on Wednesday 3rd August to discuss the issues accordingly by coming up with strong recommendations with the special committee for the special reconciliation of aggrieved members especially governor Wike.” “After the BoT meeting we will meet with Wike and all aggrieved members and all past presidential aspirants. It is my prayers as Chairman of BoT that the PDP will remain strongest and win all elections in 2023,’ he said.    The Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) Board of Trustees (BoT) Chairman,Senator Walid Jibrin has said that Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State is a very important and resourceful member of the PDP who should not be allowed to leave the Party. In "News" By Ibrahim Hassan-Wuyo The Board of Trustees Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party,PDP, Senator Walid Jibrin, has said that  Senator Ademola Adeleke’s victory at the just concluded Osun governorship election will make the party to win more states in Western Nigeria.Speaking to journalists, Walid Jibrin said that Adeleke’s victory at the poll… In "News" By Phrank Shaibu As far as politicians in Nigeria go, Barrister Ezenwo Nyesom Wike, the Governor of  Rivers State, must rank among the most successful. One may not be at home with his style but no one can take away the fact that he has been victorious on all fronts of… In "Politics"