NNEWI —The Indigenous People of Biafra has cautioned the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, to cancel her planned visit to the South-East. The group made the call after it raised the alarm over an alleged plot to assassinate the envoy during her visit. According to IPOB, which claimed it got the information through its intelligence arm, the M-Branch, the idea is to assassinate Laing in the South-East and blame it on its members.Revealing that the British envoy to Nigeria had “deep hatred” for the actualisation of Biafra restoration, the group warned that the information became expedient to put the world in the know of the assassination plot, saying, “We respect the sanctity of life”. The IPOB Director of Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, stated this in a statement yesterday. The statement read in part: “The global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra, under the leadership of Mazi Nnamdi Okwuchukwu Kanu, wish to advise the British High Commissioner, Catriona Laing to be more conscious of her environment. “We as well call on British High Commissioner to shelve her regular visits to different parts of the Nigeria country-side especially the Biafraland otherwise referred to as South-East.“The reason for this sincere security advice is to save her life. Despite her hatred for Biafra and Igbo in particular, we have optimal respect and value for the sanctity of life, especially visitors to our land. “Given the recently intercepted intel by our M-Branch, the IPOB Intelligence Unit Department, there’s an orchestrated conspiracy to perform a sacrifice big and powerful enough to strengthen the potency of the British hatred against the Igbo and Biafra. Such high profile plan is zeroed toward using a highly placed person capable of making headline news globally as a scapegoat. “The leadership of IPOB does hereby advise that Ms. Catriona Liang, must as a matter of life and death suspend all her planned activities involving travels within Biafran territories.“Those that are threatened by Biafra restoration project have perfected evil plans to assassinate Ms. Catriona Liang, the British Envoy on Biafra soil as a quick and cogent reason for Britain to disengage their weapons supplies to Ukraine and concentrate same towards Nigeria to be used against Biafrans. “They aim to quash the agitation for self determination and to kill as many indigenous Biafrans as possible and other residents in Biafra land. “We want to make it unequivocally clear to the international community that IPOB is a non-violent, delf determination movement and we understand the usefulness of diplomacy and we respect diplomatic relations. “Despite the Nigerian government’s unprovoked attacks, arrest, torture, illegal detentions, rape, killings and forceful disappearance of our family members especially our youth, IPOB has not changed our peaceful non-violent agitation into armed struggle.” It added, “IPOB does not wish the British envoy death or dead. However, if she ignores this advice and walks into the trap already set by the enemies of the Biafra struggle, that will be considered suicidal. “We also want to let those masterminding the assassination plot of a British envoy understand that nothing, and I mean absolutely nothing, will slow down, let alone halt the Biafra restoration project. We, therefore, advise the British envoy never to lose your guard even while we’ve successfully burst their plan. “It is worthy to note that we had never attacked British persons, citizens, institutions, investments, and properties of any kind, and we do not have such intention now or in the future, notwithstanding being at the receiving end of the British unpleasant attitudes, Igbophobic, Biafraphobic and stringent policies.”   Don’t come to South-East, IPOB advises British Envoy In "News" By Chimaobi Nwaiwu NNEWI- THE Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, yesterday condemn in its entirety the kidnapping of Methodist Church Prelate, His Eminence Samuel Kanu and some of his priests in Abia state, describing it as a sacrilegious. IPOB therefore, called on the kidnappers of the men of God to… In "News" By Biodun Busari  The Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, has warned those behind the killings and abduction of innocent citizens in South East of Nigeria to desist from such heinous acts.  In a statement by IPOB's spokesperson, Emma Powerful, on Saturday, the group said the judiciary will capitalise on the… In "Metro"