By Biodun Busari Nigerian-British politician and a Member of Parliament (MP), Kemi Badenoch, has berated her home country’s politicians for being selfish and failing to serve others, according to a video shared on Twitter on Wednesday. Ms Badenoch is in the race with seven others to become the Conservative leader and British Prime Minister, after Boris Johnson resigned from the office. Others in the race are Suella Braverman, Jeremy Hunt, Penny Mordaunt, Rishi Sunak, Tom Tugendhat, Liz Truss and Nadhim Zahawi. Read Also: Meet Nigeria’s Kemi Badenoch who wants to be UK’s Prime Minister Badenoch, in her speech to garner support for the top office, said she is in the contest to serve her party and country, the United Kingdom, having grown up in Nigeria and witnessed how Nigerian politicians fail to serve the country. She said: “I’m ambitious for our party and our country. I chose to become a conservative MP to serve and I chose this country because here, I can be free and I can be everything that I wanted to be. “I grew up in Nigeria and I saw firsthand when politicians are in it for themselves. “When they use private money as their piggybanks, when they promise the earth and they pollute not just the earth, but the whole political atmosphere with their failure to serve others. “I came to Britain, determined to make my way in a country where hard work and honesty can take you anywhere.” Vanguard News   Kemi Badenoch By Biodun Busari A British woman politician of Nigeria extraction, Kemi Badenoch, has declared her intention to succeed Boris Johnson as the next Conservative leader and British Prime Minister. Ms Badenoch was the former Equalities Minister, and while confirming her candidacy, according to BBC, said she is in… In "Metro" Boris Johnson's premiership is on the brink after a whirlwind two days in Westminster that saw 46 Tory MPs sensationally quit their roles in Government. In an historic collapse the PM suffered the highest number of government resignations of any Prime Minister since 1932, as three Cabinet ministers, 16 ministers,… In "Foreign" The British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, has appointed a 39-year-old UK-born Nigerian, Kemi Olufunto Badenoch, as a Minister of Children and Families. In "News"