Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, the Sultan of Sokoto and President General Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) has urged Muslim to imbibe the spirit of forgiveness and sacrifices among one another. Abubakar who made the assertion in his Sallah message to Nigerians on Saturday in Sokoto said Muslim should hold on to the lessons of Eid-el-Kabir. “We should continue to thank the Almighty Allah for His blessings and gift of life to celebrate this great moment. “The security challenges we are facing in our country has continue to remain a source of concern and worrisome. “As such we should use this period of worship to pray for our leaders, security agencies and the nation to prosper. “Moreover, as leaders we will not get tired of calling on the citizens to continue to pray for our country, therefore we should sustain more prayers for peace, unity and prosperity of Nigeria. “Our security agencies should always be appreciated and encourage for the sustained effort and commitment to address our current situation,” he said. The Sultan further called on Muslim Ummah in the country to obtain their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to elect leaders of their desire. “Our PVC is the only weapon we have to elect leaders we desire, as such I urged on all Muslim who are eligible to get their voter cards to be able to vote the leaders we deserve in the country,” he said. He appealed to politicians to fair Allah and ensure peaceful electioneering processes in the country. Abubakar appreciated the Sokoto State Government for its sustain support to the needy and vulnerable in the society. He also appreciated security agencies for their dedication in addressing security challenges in the country. (NAN)    Sanwo-Olu, in an Eid-el-Kabir message issued on Friday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, also advised Nigerians, especially Muslims to imbibe the lessons of the sacrifice made by Prophet Ibrahim and work for the unity, peace and progress of the nation In "News"  By Luminous Jannamike, Abuja  The Christian Association of Nigeria has rejoiced with the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs under the leadership of the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa'ad Abubakar III, and the Muslim faithful in the country as they celebrate Eid-el-Fitri. CAN urged them to continue to abide by… In "News" Delta Governor and Vice-Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, has congratulated Muslims in the country as they celebrate Eid-el-Kabir.  He urged the Islamic faithful to emulate the Holy Prophet Mohammed by imbibing the ideals of sacrifice exemplified by him, and charged Nigerians to renew and be… In "News"