By Biodun Busari Nigerians, on Twitter, have reacted as business magnate, Femi Otedola, visited the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Bola Tinubu. Otedola posted their pictures on his verified Twitter handle, @realFemiOtedola, on Tuesday morning. Read Also: Big Brother Naija is back, with N100m prize He also wished Tinubu well in his ambition to become the next Nigerian President. Otedola tweeted: “I am always excited visiting my Great Friend Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu @officialABAT. “May God grant him his heart’s desire in becoming the President of this great Nation …F.Ote.” Below are some of the reactions of the tweeps. @SeniormanOA reacted: “I don’t understand why you people are upset lol. You can’t be proper rich without the influence of politics. “The elites will align with those who serve their best interest. You align with those that serve yours. Such is life.” @Realkaycee16 asked: “How will the country move forward when it’s intentionally designed for the betterment of the elites, and for the deterioration of the welfare of the collective masses?” @EngineerNGR said: “Femi’s dad was formerly a governor of Lagos, so what do we expect?” Vanguard News   Billionaire businessman, Femi Otedola, has met with the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, in Paris, France. Otedola disclosed his meeting with Tinubu via a post on his social media accounts on Tuesday. The businessman, who stated that he is always excited to visit Tinubu, wished… In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC), Ghana chapter, has urged the party’s presidential candidate, Senator Bola Tinubu, to pick a female as his running mate. The Chairman of APC Ghana, Mr. Oghenosa Micheletti, who made the appeal in a statement on Friday, recalled that Tinubu, who fielded a female running mate,… In "Politics" Fathers and their daughters share an enviable bond. No matter how old a girl grows, to her father, she is always his little princess. In "Entertainment"