By Emmanuel Okogba Israel Adesanya wants a fight with Brazilian, Alex Pereira who knocked out his opponent in one of the fights that preceeded him retaining his title on Sunday. Adesanya defeated American Jared Cannonier by unanimous decision (49-46, 49-46, 50-45) after five rounds before calling out Pereira who was watching on outside the cage. Pereira easily dispatched Sean Strickland with a vicious first-round knockout and looks to equally want the fight with Adesanya. ‘The first time I had you on skates, next time I’ll have you Frozen, like Elsa’, Adesanya told Pereira in his post-fight interview in what now seems to be the obvious next move. Both fighters have met on two occassions before now, although it was not in the UFC. In 2016, Pereira ended Adesanya’s 12-fight winning streak with a unanimous decision victory and earned him a rematch when they met during their kickboxing days. A lead left hook caught ‘The Last Stylebender’ in the rematch and left him almost lifeless on the canvas. He later required oxygen to regain consciousness.    By Emmanuel Okogba Isreal Adesanya overcame American Jared Cannonier by unanimous decision (49-46, 49-46, 50-45) to retain his UFC middlewieight title on Sunday. Both fighters came into the bout with impressive records, but after five rounds, Isreal remained undefeated in the category and even had the time to call out… In "Sports" Round 5: Final round underway. Cannonier rushes out of his corner and is checked by Adesanya. Both fighters get into a clinch and back into the corner. Cannonier digging into Adesanya's knees. Cannonier attempting a take down which fails and follows it up with a double jab. Adesanya replies with… In "Sports" By Emmanuel Okogba Israel Adesanya retained his middleweight title at UFC 271 in Houston, Texas by defeating Australian, Robert Whittaker on Sunday The reigning UFC middleweight champion won via a unanimous decision after five rounds in his fourth consecutive title defense in front of 6,000 fans packed into the Toyota Center The… In "Sports"