The police command in Abia has confirmed electrocution of a suspected electric accessories thief at Amoji-Ukwu Village, Obingwa Local Government Area of the state. The Public Relations Officer of the command, SP Geoffrey Ogbonna, said that the suspected thief was electrocuted in the early hours of Friday while cutting two cables linked to a transformer. Ogbonna gave the confirmation in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Aba on Saturday. A resident of Amoji-Ukwu Village, Chinenye Agomuo, had said that there was an explosion in the community on Friday and it occurred when a man cut cables connected to a transformer. “On Friday morning, about 4: 00 a.m., we heard an explosion suspected to be from a transformer. “After the explosion, I began to get phone calls from my brother living near the transformer, asking me to come to the scene. “He said that someone climbed the transformer and was electrocuted. “When we reached there, it was a young man. “He had climbed up to cut the amoured cables but unfortunately for him, the current killed him,” Agomuo said. He said that the community reported the matter to Eastern Ngwa Police Station. Agomuo said that the body of the suspect was deposited at a mortuary with the assistance of the police.   The Abia Command of Nigeria Police on Sunday confirmed the electrocution of a suspected thief popularly called “Bouncer” in Aba while stealing from a church. SP Geoffrey Ogbonna, the Abia Command Police PRO confirmed the report in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). He said the “area-boy”… In "Don't Miss" By Dayo Johnson, Akure Four children, including two siblings, were electrocuted in Oke Aigo area in Ile-Oluji/Okeigbo council area of Ondo State after a newly installed 11kv power line fell on the container where they were playing. Vanguard gathered that the container was used as a shop by the parents… In "Metro" I lost two of my three children in just one day, I’m in shock  - Distressed father By Dayo Johnson Akure It was double tragedy for the residents of Oke Aigo street in Ile-Oluji/Okeigbo council area of Ondo state. The last Easter festivity was turned into mourning while a birthday celebration… In "Metro"