The All Progressives Congress, APC  Northwest has said that no fewer than 30 cases have been instituted against the party at the end of the various primary elections held in the  Northwest zone. The National Legal Adviser of APC, Ahmed Usman El-Marzuq said at a press conference in Kaduna that the committee will carry out a similar visit to the remaining five political zones across the country to address any legal issue within the party. He said “today the zonal Legal field operations committee met in Kaduna. In attendance were legal advisers from Kano, Kebbi, Kaduna, Sokoto, as well as legal advisers from the National headquarters.” “The purpose of the meeting is to address legal issues that have emanated from the primary elections during the state Assemblies, Governorship, House of Representatives, Senate and Presidential elections.” “During such exercises, issues of complaints and petitions are usually received. The law has provided remedies for such complaints to be pursued in the various courts in the land.” El- Marzuq said that, at this stage, other parties, as well as aggrieved party members, will employ legal representation, hence, the meeting was intended to strategize ahead of the 2023 elections.  He explained that, the maiden meeting availed them the opportunity to know the number of cases filed in the various courts, and they have so far recorded 30 cases in the Northwest zone.  “Some are coming from even from the opposition parties, but the cases will not affect the fortunes of the party in next year’s general elections,” he said.    NASS created problems encountered during party primaries — Salihu Lukman In "Interview" Leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC from the Northwest geopolitical zone have resolved to aggregate their interests and engage the presidential candidate of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu In "News" A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Northwest zone and former Director General of the Progressives Governors Forum, Alhaji Salihu Lukman has said that the Northwest remains a backbone of the APC where they will do everything to win the 2023 election.  In "News"