FeatureByTurntable – Chart rankings on the Nigeria Top 100 are based on weighted formula incorporating audio and video streams within Nigeria, as well as airplay on radio and satellite TV in the country. It is the first and only standard music chart in Nigeria, providing comprehensive music activity including the official No. 1 song in Nigeria. Chart Methodology Top 10 Countdown“Peace Be Unto You” by YBNL sensational superstar, Asake leads the countdown as it was the most heard song on airplay in the past week. The hit song gathered 2.94 million Nigerian streams and 68.8 million airplay impressions. It is closely followed by Kizz Daniel’s intercontinental hit song “Buga(Lo Lo Lo)” ft. Tekno. The street anthem ranks No.2 on the chart with 3.07 million Nigerian streams and 62.1 million airplay impressions. “Buga” emerged as the most-streamed song during the tracking week. At No.3, Mavins’ hit song “Overloading(OVERDOSE)” ft. Ladipoe, Ayra Starr, Crayon, Magixx & Boy Spyce tallied 2.86 million Nigerian streams and 48.7 million airplay impressions. “Last Last” by African Giant, Burna Boy ranks as No.4 with 1.66 million Nigerian streams and 53.9 million airplay impressions. “Palazzo” by Spinall & Asake rounds up the top five with 1.69 million Nigerian streams and 48.6 million airplay impressions. The song at No.6 is “Sugarcane(Remix)” by Ghanian superstar singer, Camidoh ft. Nigerian singer, Mayorkun, Darkoo, and fellow Ghanian, King Promise. The song tallied 1.40 million Nigerian streams and 45.1 million airplay impressions while Ruger’s “Girlfriend” is at No.7 with 1.47 million Nigerian streams and 40.1 million airplay impressions. No.8 is “Loving You” by Zinoleesky, Mayorkun’s “Certified Loner(No Competition)” is No.9, while Omah Lay’s “Woman” completes the Top 10 Countdown for the week. Top 10 Nigeria Music Countdown- Chart Week of July 1-7, 2022 FeaturedPost #FeatureByTurntable    Kizz Daniel hits  global stage with ‘Buga' In "Entertainment" By Adeleye Adegboyega Afrobeats stars, Wizkid and Tems successful reign in the global music scene continues, days after their international hit song “Essence” earned them a record-breaking feat- winning the Best Collaboration Award at the 2022 BET Awards. For Starboy, Chris Brown’s Afrobeat-inspired single “Call Me Everyday” ft. Wizkid debuts… In "Entertainment" The global village now enjoys the sounds emanating from Nigeria and yearns for more. Nigerian Artistes on their part are leaving no stone unturned in serving it hot for the global audience who have fully accepted afrobeat. The Nigerian music industry continues to blossom with the arrival of new acts… In "Entertainment"