The first wife of Nigerian actor/director, Yul Edochie, May Yul Edochie has opened up about how she survived depression after her husband married his colleague, Judy Austin. May in a Facebook live session on Tuesday noted that many people on her comment section had rebuked her for cashing out from the situation which broke her down. She further disclosed that she doesn’t wish such a situation to befall on any of her enemy if she has one. Adding that the outpour of love and support she received from her family and fans brought her out of the depression. She said, “I saw some few comments that May is using this to cash out and all of that and I am like okay, it’s fine, I am cashing out right. “I don’t wish this upon my enemies if at all I have any. Depression is real and there are different stages to it. Rather than dwell on depression, I decided to pick up the pieces of a beautiful world that I had. An amazing one that suddenly crushed. I decided to pick up the pieces and move on, rather than dwell on depression. “It has not been easy. Am glad that I look happy and I appear strong. I am happy, I am glad that I am able to go out and do things. I am surprised at the things that I do. It’s all because of the love and support from my family and you all. These are the things that have kept me going. Honestly speaking people say I aspire and motivate them but the truth is it’s you guys that have inspired me”. Watch Video below:    By David Royal Nollywood actress and activist, Georgina Chigozie Onuoha has slammed her colleague, Yul Edochie for using traditional and biblical references to justify polygamy Georgina in a lengthy post shared on Instagram Friday morning was reacting to another post made by Yul Edochie Thursday on his official Instagram page… In "Entertainment" Nollywood producer and actor, Yul Edochie has been mocked online by many social media users after his daughter distanced herself from him in a post on Friday. Yul’s daughter in a post on Instagram issued a warning to those linking him to her father’s marriage brouhaha, begging them to stop tagging her… In "Entertainment" Why Kanayo O. Kanayo, Yul Edochie, Kate Henshaw not contesting in 2023 elections In "Entertainment"