Nigeria Olympic Committee, NOC, has congratulated Team Nigeria’s heroines after their spectacular success at the World Athletics Championships in Oregon, USA, on Sunday. Tobi Amusan caused a stir after smashing a world record in the Women’s 100-meter hurdles in the semi-finals at the World Championships. Amusan came in with a record time of 12.12 seconds, beating Kendra Harrison’s 2016 record of 12.20 by 0.8 of a second. She went on to bag gold in the final, though her initial finishing time of 12.06 was ruled out due to strong wind speeds. An overjoyed Secretary General of the NOC, Banji Oladapo pointed out that Amusan was part of athletes that received IOC scholarships from 2017 to 2021 and she is currently on IOC scholarship from 2021 to 2024. ”The target is to win Gold in Paris 2024. NOC is happy that she has shot herself and Nigeria into reckoning” as she described her as an inspiration to everyone at home”. The NOC also applauded the efforts of Ese Brume who won Silver after winning Bronze in the Olympics in Tokyo. “The skill, determination and hard work shown by the athletes and their support teams throughout the Championships has been an inspiration to us all. We salute their strength, passion and determination”, Oladapo noted. Team Nigeria finished 13th on the overall medal placement and third best placed country from Africa. Nigeria finished behind Kenya and Ethiopia with Uganda finishing fourth place.    By Emmanuel Okogba Tobi Amusan became the first Nigerian ever to win gold at the World Athletics Championships after racing to a stunning world record time of 12.06s. It was the second time Amusan would break the record on the night, improving on her 12.12s in the semi-final. It was… In "Sports" By Emmanuel Okogba Nigeria's Tobi Amusan walked away with a cheque of $100,000 for breaking the World record in the women's 100m hurdles event in Eugene, Oregon. Amusan won the final in a wind-assisted time of 12.06s better than the 12.12s she ran in the semis. The time was later… In "Sports" By Emmanuel Okogba Tobi Amusan raced to Gold on the last day of the World Athletics Championships in Eugene, Oregon, USA in the women's 100m hurdles event. The African, Commonwealth and now World champion's record breaking campaign began from the heats where she set a new African Record from Heat… In "Sports"