Music Wizzes, Wizkid & Wiz Khalifa are on for a monster collaboration as Wiz Khalifa’s new album “Multiverse” is set to be released on July 29th. The American rapper revealed earlier this year that a song with Afrobeats Superstar singer, Wizkid would be dropping soon when he posted on his Instagram page with the caption :“Wiz X Wiz” Wiz Khalifa and @Wizkidayo on the wayTELL EVERYBODY!!!!#multiverse. The “Young, Wild & Free” and “See you again” crooner, Wiz Khalifa is one of the many American stars leveraging the Afrobeats wave as he chose to collaborate with one of Africa’s finest music superstar, Wizkid. It’s been a stellar year for The Grammy award-winning Superstar, Wizkid.He recently became the first African artiste to win a major category at the BET Awards as his international hit/ Billboard Top 10 charting single, “Essence” ft. American Pop star, Justin Beiber and superstar singer, Tems won the Best Collaboration Award. Similarly, Starboy’s featured track on American superstar singer; Chris Brown’s Breezy album- “Call Me Everyday” recently debuted on the US Billboard Top 100 Charts and the song is making waves in streams, listening and airplays all over the world. Surely, this is another BIG WIN for BIG WIZ; Another potential award-winning/ Billboard charting single is up in the works for the multi-talented singer as he delivers a fantastic verse in Wiz Khalifa’s “Multiverse”.   By David Royal Nigerian Afrobeat singer and grammy award-winning artiste, Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun, professionally known as Wizkid, turned 32 today 16th July as fans took to social media platforms to celebrate the legendary singer. Wizkid who made his debut in the Nigerian music industry in 2011 is still making bigger… In "Entertainment" By Adeleye Adegboyega Afrobeats superstar singer, Wizkid has received a lovely happy birthday message from his baby mama & manager, Jada Pollock. The US-born music executive and an entrepreneur celebrated Wizkid on his 32nd birthday, calling the singer "Baby" with a lovely romantic picture. However, fans are speculating about a… In "News" By Precious Chukwudi Singer and record label boss, Olubankole Wellington, popularly known by his stage name, Banky W, has revealed that he was unhappy when his protégé, megastar Wizkid, was not at his wedding. Banky W made the revelation in a radio interview.He was asked by the presenter, Ebuka, if… In "News"