By Victor Ahiuma-Young Workers in the power sector have threatened to shutdown  electricity supply in the country should Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, declare a nationwide protest over the protracted industrial crises in the country’s educational sector. Under the aegis of the National Union of Electricity Employees, NUEE, the workers argued that the carefree attitude of government towards the continued closure of schools is a sorry state in the process of Nigeria’s development towards nationhood. Read Also: Your silence on lingering ASUU strike regrettable, disappointing, shameful — APC leaders told In a statement by its General Secretary, Joe Ajaero, NUEE said it “is deeply saddened and appalled by the impasse between the Federal Government of Nigeria and Unions in the Tertiary Academic Sector (Universities, Polytechnics, Colleges of Education and Research Institutes) which has avoidably lingered”. It went on: “This deadlock which has lasted for several months with the students staying at home; is undoubtedly exposing the students to all forms of negative vices inimical to nation building. “NUEE therefore calls on the Federal Government to address all issues concerning non implementation of Agreements and others affecting Nigeria’s hallowed Tertiary Institutions”.   Say members are politicians, not professionals   By Victor Ahiuma-Young ELECTRICITY Workers in the country have rejected the inaugurated Board of Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN, claiming members are politicians instead of professionals. The workers under the aegis of the National Union of Electricity Employees, NUEE, in a statement yesterday, contended… In "News" Atiku Abubakar By Victor Ahiuma-Young LAGOS—Workers in the nation’s power sector, weekend, rubbished the agenda of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, presidential candidate for the 2023 election, Atiku Abubakar, describing it as self-serving. According to the workers, Atiku’s power sector agenda is aimed at continuing the appropriation of national assets to… In "News" INDICATIONS of growing restiveness in the Electricity industry have emerged over Federal Government and Power sector operators' alleged breach of Power Sector Reform Act, PSRA of 2005 which culminated in the privatisation of the assets of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria, PHCN in 2014. In "Energy"