By Miftaudeen Raji The presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, on Wednesday, has reacted to the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Bola Tinubu’s comment he made about their party, which the party and its members considered derogatory. Obi made the remark in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, at a mega rally to support the governorship candidate of the party, Lasun Yusuff. He said: “I listened to our chairman when he said that somebody said ‘they can labour till death’. “When they show you hatred, Labour Party will show them love. There is dignity in labour.” Recall that Tinubu, at the grand rally for the re-election of APC candidate, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Tuesday, had said: “They said some are in Labour, they will remain labourers till death.” He also called on the people of Osun to support the party’s candidate in the governorship poll to give the state better leadership. Similarly, the LP’s candidate, Lasun lambasted Tinubu, saying his comment about the Labour Party by the APC leader was inconsistent with the attributes of a virtuous Yoruba man.    By Biodun Busari Some aggrieved Nigerians have expressed their displeasure over the statements made by the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, that Peter Obi’s Labour Party, LP, and others will labour till death. Tinubu, who is also the APC national leader, said Labour Party and the… In "News" •Tinubu intensifies search for running mate •Labour Party candidate seeks young northerner as VP  nominee By Nnamdi Ojiego & Ibrahim Hassan WuyoPresidential candidate  of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPC), Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, yesterday, raised hope on the possibility of teaming up with his Labour Party counterpart, Mr Peter… In "News" Human rights activist and convener of Concerned Nigerians, Deji Adeyanju has advised the presidential candidates of Labour Party, Peter Obi; New Nigeria People’s Party, Rabiu Kwankwaso and African Action Congress, Omoyele Sowore to work together ahead of 2023 elections. In "News"