By Emmanuel Okogba Nigeria’s Super Falcons failed to hold their own and lost 1-2 to perennial rivals South Africa in their opening game of the Africa Women Cup of Nations on Monday. Two quick goals proved the difference in what was termed the final before final when the draws were held. Jermaine Seoposenwe who returned to the Banyana Banyana set-up for the first time since 2019 broke the deadlock in the 61st minute before Hildah Tholakele Magaia doubled the lead through an unstoppable shot only two minutes later. Rasheedat Ajibdate scored deep in stoppage time to grab the consolation. The win was a demonstration of South Africa’s dominance over Nigeria in recent years. Before Monday’s clash, the Super Falcons had not won or scored against South Africa in the continental showpiece since 2016 when Desire Oparanozie’s goal separated the sides in the semi-final. Although ageless captain Onome Ebi and Ashleigh Plumptre impressed on the night, it was not enough to stop Desiree Ellis’ charges from grabbing the first three available points in Group C. Oshoala who was leading Nigeria’s assault was unusually quiet upfront and had to make way for Fransisca Ordega in the 82nd. The Barcelona forward may need to have a better understanding with strike partner Ifeoma Onumonu heading into the next group game against Botswana on Thursday as their partnership didn’t yield the expected result.    Rodney Mokoka, Banyana Banyana team Doctor has confirmed that there are no injuries or any medical conditions within the squad and all the players are fit to take on rivals Super Falcons and other teams in the CAF Women Cup of Nations in Morocco. Mokoka spoke in a short video… In "Sports" Pinnick in a group photograph with the Super Falcons contingent President of the Nigeria Football Federation and FIFA Council Member, Mr Amaju Melvin Pinnick has told the Super Falcons of Nigeria to bulldoze their way to a 10th African title when they participate in the 12th Women Africa Cup of… In "Sports" Head Coach Randy Waldrum has invited 32 players to the camp of the Super Falcons as the Cup holders get set for a two-week training camp in Morocco ahead of the 12th Women Africa Cup of Nations holding in that country, 2nd – 23rd July. Goalkeeper Chiamaka Nnadozie, defender and… In "Sports"