By Emmanuel Okogba Talking drummer, Ara believes that African men relish the idea of being with a strong woman but cannot handle the reality of being in a relationship with one. Aralola Olamuyiwa, better known as Ara was a guest on Vanguard‘s Instagram Live session on Friday where she bared her mind of sundry issues ranging from how she started drumming to being a single mom and feminism. “No, I don’t feel inferior. I’d be lying if I say I don’t miss that stability of having a partner in my life, but one thing I’ve come to realize in this part of the world is that African men cannot contain a strong female like myself”, Ara told Vanguard‘s Benjamin Njoku when asked if she feels insecure being a single mom. “Men like the fantasy of dating a star, but they cannot hold down a relationship with a star, a celebrity, a strong woman. This is not entertainment only. It’s about strong women in all fields. It takes a very strong, self-confident man to have a relationship with women like us. We are very strong. It doesn’t mean he won’t love you. He will love and respect you. “For me, over the years, I’ve been single. I’ve been single since 2011. I’ve been careful in getting involved. I’ve gotten four marriage proposals, but I turned them down, because I could see that these men really liked and wanted to marriage, but would not be able to sustain the relationship and I would have to leave again because they had insecurity issues and were easily intimated.” She further said she ended a four months relationship because of her partner’s insecurity. Watch full interview below…    Sophia By Benjamin Njoku Canada-based Nigerian singer, Sophia popularly known as Adaeze may not have any album to her credit, but she says music can't be separated from her life as it has an integral part to play in it. Adaeze started playing music back in the days of iconic… In "Entertainment" He was an enigma. Last Sunday, ‘Ara’ died as quietly as he had lived his entire life.  Otunba Deji Osibogun, my friend based in Ibadan, Nigeria, called to give me the sad news.  Some time ago, for some reason, Deji and I had discussed Ara,  a nickname this prodigious football genius… In "Columns" The House of Representatives Member, Representing Egbeda/Ona Ara Federal Constituency, Hon. Akin Alabi has won his primaries in Egbeda Ona Ara after facing a stiff challenge from Comrade Moshood Erubami and Capt Kazeem Akinjide (Rtd). Hon. Akin Alabi got 91 of 106 votes to emerge the winner amidst jubilation from… In "News"