By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Abuja VICE President Yemi Osinbajo, on Thursday, distanced himself from a memo purported to have originated from his office to President Muhammadu Buhari, seeking permission to resign his membership of the All Progressives Congress, APC. A memo dated June 24, 2022 with reference number SH/VP/605/2./0 and sighted by our correspondent, listed, among others, family pressure, his (Osinbajo) continuous participation in active and partisan politics and membership of the APC as the reasons for his decision. Read Also: BREAKING: Baba Ijesha jailed 16 years for sexual assault However, when contacted to confirm the authenticity of the said memo, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Mr. Laolu Akande, described it as fake. He said the language of the author of the memo was not that of Vice President Osinbajo, pointing out that his boss would not write a memo so full of errors. According to him, “Where do you people even get these things from? Who gave it to you? Anyway, for the avoidance of doubt, the memo is fake. VP didn’t write any such thing.” The memo with the heading, “Permission to Resign from APC”, and purportedly signed by Vice President Osinbajo, is reproduced verbatim: “I have the honour to inform you that for some time now, I have been having series of meetings and pressure from my immediate family members on some matters. “One of the issues borders on my continuous participation on active and partisan politics, and by extension, my continuous membership of our party, the All Progressives Congress, APC. “As a father and great member, whom without you, I would not be where I am today, regrettably, I write to seek for your permission to resign my membership of the All Progressives Congress, APC. “However, if the timing of this plan is not convenience or acceptable by Your Excellency, I will surely abide by your decision and advice, which I will consider to be the final. “Please accept the assurances of my highest regards and loyalty.” Vanguard News   FOR the umpteenth time, the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to resign and hand over to his Vice, Yemi  Osinbajo. In "News" Professor Yemi Osinbajo By Gabriel Olawale The Democratic Reformers, a prominent support group of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, has alleged the sponsorship of a smear campaign aimed at sullying the image of the legal professor as a religious bigot, with an unnamed controversial academician, allegedly at the arrow-head of the… In "News" Yemi Osinbajo’s Presidential Campaign Council (PYO) has told APC national delegates that the Vice President has not stepped down from the race to become the President of the country come 2023. In "News"