The list for CAF Player of the Year award has been trimmed down to just three players and those who made it are; Edouard Mendy (Senegal & Chelsea), Mohamed Salah (Egypt & Liverpool), Sadio Mane (Senegal & Bayern Munich). The Awards will be held in Rabat, Morocco on 21 July 2022 at 20h00 local time. (19h00 GMT).  The top three list is from the list of nominees previously revealed by CAF in both men and women categories.  In the Player of the Year category; four-time winner Asisat Oshoala of Nigeria is in the hunt for a fifth crown. However, she faces stiff opposition from Cameroonian Ajara Nchout Njoya and new entrant Grace Chanda of Zambia for the Women’s category. In the men’s category, former winners’ Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane of Egypt and Senegal will have to battle it out with Senegal shot stopper Edouard Mendy, also a new comer in the three-men list. Full list of top 3 nominees (in alphabetical order);  Player of the Year (Women) Ajara Nchout Njoya (Cameroon & Internazionale Milano) Asisat Oshoala (Nigeria & Barcelona) Grace Chanda (Zambia & BIIK Kazygurt) Player of the Year (Men) Edouard Mendy (Senegal & Chelsea) Mohamed Salah (Egypt & Liverpool) Sadio Mane (Senegal & Bayern Munich) Interclub Player of the Year (Women) Andile Dlamini (South Africa & Mamelodi Sundowns) Bambanani Mbanie (South Africa & Mamelodi Sundowns)  Evelyn Badu (Ghana & Sekondi Hasaacas Ladies/Alvaldsnes)  Interclub Player of the Year (Men) Achraf Dari (Morocco & Wydad Athletic Club) Aliou Dieng (Mali & Al Ahly) Mohamed El Shenawy (Egypt & Al Ahly) Young Player of the Year (Women) Doris Boaduwaa (Ghana & Sekondi Hasaacas Ladies) Evelyn Badu (Ghana & Sekondi Hasaacas Ladies/Alvaldsnes) Yasmine Zouhir (Morocco & AS Saint-Etienne) Young Player of the Year (Men)  Hannibal Mejbri (Tunisia & Manchester United) Karim Konate (Cote d’Ivoire & ASEC/RB Salzburg) Pape Matar Sarr (Senegal & Tottenham Hotspur) Coach of the Year (Women) Bruce Mwape (Zambia) Desiree Ellis (South Africa) Jerry Tshabalala (Mamelodi Sundowns) Reynald Pedros (Morocco) Coach of the Year (Men) Aliou Cisse (Senegal) Carlos Queiroz (Egypt) Walid Regragui (Wydad Athletic Club) Club of the Year (Women) AS FAR (Morocco) Hasaacas Ladies (Ghana) Mamelodi Sundowns (South Africa) Club of the Year (Men) Al Ahly (Egypt) RS Berkane (Morocco) Wydad Athletic Club (Morocco) National Team of the Year (Men)  Cameroon Egypt Senegal National Team of the Year (Women)  Due to the absence of a major women’s competition during the period under review, the Organising Team for the CAF Awards 2022 has reviewed the selection process for this important category. The TotalEnergies Women’s Africa Cup of Nations Morocco will be factored as one of the criterion in deciding a winner befitting of the status of the award and women’s football in general. The winner will be announced on 23 July 2022 during the final match of the Women’s AFCON. Goal of the Year Gabadinho Mhango (Malawi & Orlando Pirates) Pape Ousmane Sakho (Senegal & Simba) Zouhair El Moutaraji (Morocco & Wydad Athletic Club)   By Emmanuel Okogba Super Eagles of Nigeria and Nantes forward, Moses Simon has been included in the Confederation of Africa, CAF, shortlist for Player of the Year Award. The list has a total of 30 players with majority of them plying their trade outside the shores of their country. Moses… In "Sports" By Emmanuel Okogba Liverpool forward, Mohamed Salah has been named the PFA Player's Player of the year - his second. He was beaten to the award last year by Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne and he returned the favour this time around. Salah won the award after an exceptional season… In "Sports" LIVERPOOL are considering letting Mo Salah follow Sadio Mane out of the door this summer. Owners FSG will weigh up a shock sale if they get an offer in the region of £60million. And LaLiga giants Real Madrid are among the clubs monitoring Salah’s delicate situation. Mane moved to Bayern… In "Sports"