By Esther Onyegbula Police operatives attached to the Ojota Division, Lagos State Command, are currently investigating the murder of an 82-year-old woman. The woman, identified as Augustine Ayodele, before her death lived at 20 Niyi Ogunleye Street, Ojota, with her maid. According to one of her neighbours who spoke with Vanguard correspondent on the condition of anonymity, “the woman was found dead in a pool of blood in her apartment on July 1. Read Also: Host, guests keep mum as Sanwo-Olu team’s meeting with Wike ends “She had marks of violence on parts of her body including her forehead, which suggests the deceased must have been stabbed to death.” Vanguard gathered that a team of detectives visited the scene immediately after the case was reported at the divisional police station. Thereafter, her corpse was evacuated and deposited in the morgue in Yaba for autopsy. Meanwhile, the maid living with the deceased has been arrested and interrogated by homicide detectives. Confirming the incident, the Public Relations Officer, Lagos State Police Command, Benjamin Hundeyin, said investigation is ongoing. “When police detectives visited the crime scene they discovered marks of violence on the body of the deceased. Her corpse is at the morgue for autopsy. “Police have also arrested the only maid living with the deceased. She is presently being interrogated by homicide detectives,” he added. Vanguard News   By Ozioruva Aliu, Benin THE maid, Dominion Okoro  who killed the mother of former governor of Edo State, Lucky Igninedion, was yesterday sentenced to death by hanging. The 25-year-old, who murdered Madam Maria Oredola, with a stool with intent to rob her of N100,000 on December 1, 2021 at her… In "Metro" By Ugochukwu Alaribe, UMUAHIA Police operatives have arrested two okada operators for allegedly killing a woman and stealing her 11-month-old baby at a hotel in Ogbor Hill, Aba, Abia State. The suspects, Chimaobi Anyim Kalu, 25, and his accomplice, David Ogwo Orji, 21, were said to have killed the woman,… In "Metro" Her relations referred her to my clinic -Suspect By Dayo Johnson Akure Police detectives in Ondo state have arrested a quack nurse, Nneka Nwosu over the death of a pregnant woman, Queen lnnocent, in Ondo town, Ondo state.  Vanguard gathered that the victim died as a result of complications during child… In "Metro"