A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Fatai Ibikunle, has advised Nigerians to consider the myriads of problems confronting the country and choose leaders that can confront them, irrespective of religion or creed. Alhaji Ibikunle, who is the Chairman of National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), said the problems facing the nation knew no religion, ethnicity or region. Speaking at a forum of youth professionals in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, on Tuesday, Ibikunle declared that the much talked about Muslim-Muslim ticket of the APC for the 2023 presidential election had become a distraction taking away the eyes of the Nigerian players from the ball. He said those who were stoking the debate against the ticket were enemies of Nigeria, adding that rather than engaging us in debate about the capabilities of the two names on the ticket, they were weaponizing religion to, once again, deny poor Nigerians the opportunity of being served by a capable team of leaders “There is a lot of work to be done by the youths of this great nation. You need to go out there and let the ordinary people understand the true situation of things. Some people just want to tell us that religion is our main problem at this time whereas it is not. “This is a ploy to take our eyes away from the ball. The real problems confronting us right now as a nation are hunger, poverty, insecurity and comatose economy. These problems don’t know religion; they don’t know regions. “Have you not noticed that while we are dissipating energy over Muslim-Muslim ticket, things are getting worse? Some people are deliberately keeping us talking about a matter that is less important in the need to get us out of trouble as a nation. “Instead of us engaging in robust discussions on the increasing wave of insecurity in the country and challenging the presidential candidates on their programs on security, how they intend to end insecurity, bring back our economy and foster unity and peace in the country, these enemies of progress are fanning embers of disunity through religion. “Remember, it is while we were listening to those Babel about religion that terrorists were getting bold to say they would kidnap our elected leaders. “So, Nigerians need to look at the quality of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as APC presidential candidate and Alhaji Kashim Shettima as his running mate, not their religion. “Can Tinubu replicate the unprecedented and unmatched success he recorded in Lagos State in Nigeria as whole? Will his global connections as a top flight international accountant be deployed to Nigeria’s economic benefit? These are the kind of questions we should be asking now. “Let Nigerians not be deceived about religion. Asiwaju Tinubu’s wife is a senior pastor while most of his children are Christians. He wouldn’t have such a person as wife and allows his children to practice Christianity if he hates Christians. They are playing religious politics with our lives. “The All Progressives Congress has simply put up a pair that is capable of winning the presidential race and bring sustainable progress, unity and peace to our dear country. It is the best and done by the party in the best interest of Nigeria. ” We all know Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as a highly liberal and broadminded Nigerian with the love of masses at heart. Talking about mentoring and building leaders, the APC Presidential candidate is clearly the best. He has mentored and built Nigerian youths of various faiths, tribes and regions.” Alhaji Ibikunle assured the youths of a better future and a greater Nigeria with Asiwaju as the nation’s President.   A United State based Agriculturalist and chieftain of All Progressives Congress APC, Otunba Yomi Akingbade, has admonished Nigerians irrespective of their religion to focus on the capability and competence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Alhaji Kasim Shettima. In "News" Former Minister of Aviation, Fani-Kayode has said he would support the All Progressives Congress, APC Presidential flag bearer, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, should the party settle for Muslim running-mate. In "Politics" Muslim-Muslim ticket: Nigeria needs development not religion, Obidike backs Tinubu/ Shettima In "News"