By Miftaudeen Raji The candidate of Peoples Democractic Party, PDP, in the July 16 Osun governorship election, Ademola Adeleke, has said his comments on Dollar and Pounds were not intended for vote buying. Adeleke made the assertion while answering questions on his comments at the Osun 2022 Governorship Debate organized by Channels TV, in partnership with Situation Room, and monitored by our political correspondent on Sunday. He noted that his commentswere twisted by the opposition to ridicule him. Read Also: You shot yourself in the foot – Nigerians react to Tinubu’s choice of Shettima as running mate The PDP candidate said the intent of his comments on the Dollar and Pounds was to use his international connections to help the people of Osun State. The Senator said his family is noted philanthropic activities. Adeleke said he will ensure corruption is reduced to the minimal level if elected governor of Osun state. He said: “You know I’m an international guy. I have connections and whatever I said here you must go fact check. “We are running for governorship, but we must ask ourselves what have we done in our state. “What have you invested in your state before you can bring investors? I will make sure I reduce corruption to a minimum level so that people that are coming in to invest will be rest assured that they will not put their money their pocket. “That’s what they are thinking. They know what is going on. They check everyday.  Which state are they coming to invest, which road are going  to pass through? “I’m talking to my people. They are ready to come and invest in Osun State. I will make sure that I fight corruption.” It will be recalled that Adeleke was, in a viral video, seen at a PDP campaign rally, saying he has come with Dollar, Pounds and other international currencies. Vanguard News   Campaign organisation of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Osun, Senator Ademola Adeleke has warned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), against appointing an All Progressives Congress apologist as the state returning officer of the July 16 poll in the state. In "News" A former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in Osun,  Mr Kolapo Alimi, on Wednesday, defected to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In "News" Shina Abubakar, Osogbo Timi of Ede, Oba Munirudeen Lawal has directed residents and indigenes of Ede to vote massively for Senator Ademola  Adeleke and ignore 2026 false promise of governorship rotation to Osun West. In a statement issued by Senator Adeleke campaign spokesperson and made available by Olawale Rasheed, the… In "News"