Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has called on the American government and the international community to hold the government of Mohammadu Buhari accountable for the spate of violence in Nigeria as well as his safety. In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Diaspora Affairs, Peters Ichull made available to newsmen weekend in Makurdi the Governor made the call while interacting with officials of the State Department in Washington DC, USA. According to the statement, the Governor cited the series of threats he had been receiving and the attempt made on his life in March last year as signals that the Presidency and its conspirators were after him. He pointed out that till date, those who attacked him had not been prosecuted. He said he was at the State Department to present the traumatized Nigerian victims’ side of the story after discovering that wrong narratives were being circulated across the globe by the government of President Buhari to shield itself from complicity. The Governor said the false narrative of “herder-farmer clashes” was deliberately crafted to delay farmers’ doomsday until they were gradually wiped out and their ancestral lands confiscated, saying “the truth is that farming populations in Nigeria are under siege and are being decimated; agriculture is gradually dying and food security is being threatened”. Governor Ortom alerted the international community not to take the insecurity in Nigeria as a distant problem, stressing that the outbreak of war in any country would cause migration problems to America and Britain due to their friendly immigration policies. He said “in the last seven years, the Buhari administration has seen children rendered as orphans, farmers being displaced, schools, hospitals and social services disrupted, without doing anything to restore normalcy. “The federal government’s punitive neglect has led to increasing number of internally displaced persons in Benue State which now stands at 1.5 million.” The Governor called on the United States of America and the rest of the international community to take the following steps to end the spate of violence in the country, especially in Benue state, by Demand accountability from Buhari’s government on the deaths of innocent citizens. Appoint a special envoy to Nigeria to deal with the flashpoint of the violence. Ensure that international funding of IDPs gets to Benue State, the epicentre of the current violence as well as Plateau, Kaduna, Niger, Zamfara and other states affected by terrorists’ attacks in the country. And Encourage the establishment of state police in Nigeria. Responding, the US State Department officials headed by the Under Secretary, Africa and Middle East, Padgett Douglassaid “the US government was aware of random terrorism, weaponization of religion and importation of violence in Nigeria.” He noted that since the security of the political system was paramount to the US government, it had set up a conflict bureau to fund IDPs in Nigeria, promising that he would ensure that such funding did not go to the wrong channels, while assuring to make a case for the Benue IDPs and also investigate other issues raised by Governor Ortom.   By Peter Duru, Makurdi The South West Youth Leaders Forum, SWYLF, has said the recent security breaches in parts of the country in the last few days have vindicated Governor Samuel Ortom’s unending outcry on the worsening insecurity in the country and the need for the Federal Government to give… In "News" Ortom (middle) and the delegation By Peter Duru, Makurdi Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has called on the Federal Government to release the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu as part of the peace building effort in the country. The Governor noted that Kanu's… In "News" ...says religious freedom threatened by church bombings, kidnappings, killings of clergy, worshippers By Peter Duru, Makurdi Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state has decried the activities of terrorists in Nigerian lamenting that the county is currently under siege. The Governor also cautioned that the bombing of churches, the kidnappings and… In "News"