Nigerian hip hop star, Eedris Abdulkareem has disclosed that he is battling kidney failure and will have a surgical operation at the end of July. This was disclosed on Wednesday on the Instagram handle of the Nigeria Jaja Jaga artiste by his spokesperson, Hon Myke Pam. According to Pam, all that Abdulkareem asked for are prayers and good wishes, adding that he has been undergoing dialysis since the ailment was discovered. The statement was titled: ‘Asking for your prayers for Eedris Abdulkareem!’ It stated: “The Nigerian Hip Hop Czar, Social Crusader and Rights Activist, Eedris Abdulkareem of “Nigeria Jaga Jaga” fame needs the sincere and unalloyed prayers of all Nigerians and his fans around the world in these hours of his travails. “The Lakreem Entertainment Inc. boss has recently been diagnosed with kidney failure and has been undergoing dialysis since the detection at a reputable hospital here in Lagos, Nigeria. “The date for the transplant surgery is now fixed for the end of this month of July, and all arrangements and texts have been concluded, including certifying the compatibility status of the gracious donor (a family member). “Therefore, on behalf of the Abdulkareem family and Lakreem Entertainment Inc., we most sincerely ask for prayers and good wishes for Eedris, as we face these challenging times. “It’s pertinent to add here that thankfully, Eedris is full of life and in high spirit as he is bustling to go. Definitely, he’s going to come out of this and blaze up the musical stage again in due course. “Actually, his spirit emboldens us. We shall be updating you as we continue with this life saving process. May God continue to bless, protect and abide with us all. Amen.”    Following the arrest of Mr.  Omoyele Sowore, the Presidential candidate of the African Action Congress, AAC, in the 2019 general elections, by the DSS on August 3, 2019 at his residence for championing a protest tagged ’Revolution Now’, popular Nigerian hip-hop musician and human rights activist, Eedris Abdulkareem has called… In "Entertainment" By Sylvester Kwentua ‘Jaga jaga’ crooner, Eedris Abdulkareem is surely not happy with political happenings in the country in recent times, but the former Kennis music signee is rather being humorous over the happenings. READ ALSO: Nigeria is still ‘jaga jaga’ ⁠— Eedris Abdulkareem In a recent post on his official… In "Entertainment" By Emmanuel Okogba Nigerian Music Legend, Eedris Abdulkareem says he feels vindicated by the song (Jaga Jaga) he sang 18 years ago. Eedris who said this as a guest on Channels TV’s Rubbing Minds on Sunday explained that he feels vindicated because the country has remained the same even though… In "Entertainment"