Nigeria’s sole entrant in the women’s 100m race Grace Nwokocha gave a good account of herself while racing in the heats on Day 2 of the World Championships in Oregon. This is Nwokocha’s second appearance at a global competition for Nigeria, having featured in last year’s Olympic Games in Tokyo where she made the semifinal. Drawn in the same heat as reigning Olympic Champion in the 100m/200m, Elaine Thompson-Herah, Nwokocha held her own and stayed with the Jamaican, nearly crossing the line before her. Thompson-Herah clocked 11.15s as the Nigerian followed closely with a time of 11.16s. Zaynab Dosso placed 3rd, having returned a time of 11.26s. Nwokocha has her work cut out for her ahead of the semis where she is to square off with Tokyo Olympics Bronze medallist Shericka Jackson; Doha 2019 Silver medallist Dina Asher-Smith, and African Championships Silver medallist Aminatou Seyni amongst others. The Nigerian 100m champion comes with a Personal Best (PB) of 10.97s set at the exact venue of the ongoing championships, Hayward Field, during last month’s NCAA Championships. She will aim to better that time to secure a berth in the final.   By Emmanuel Okogba Nigeria will feature in the 4x100m women relay event at the upcoming World Athletics Championships holding in Oregon, USA, despite earlier fears that the team will suffer the effect of Blessing Okagbare's ban. Okagbare who was banned for anti-doping violations was part of the team six days… In "Sports" The sports ground of Yaba College of Technology, Yaba, Lagos will come alive Thursday morning when the 2nd Athletics Federation of Nigeria, AFN, All Comers competition begins. The competition is serving as official selection trials for the 22nd African Senior Champioinships in Athletics which holds between 8 and 12 of… In "Sports" Okagbare For the first time since 2012, two Nigerian athletes will be running in the semifinals of the women's 100m after Blessing Okagbare and Nzubechi Grace Nwokocha qualified from their respective heats Friday in Tokyo, Japan.            Nwokocha had to run a new personal best of… In "Sports"