By Biodun Busari Zambian President, Mr Hakainde Hichilema has honoured former President Olusegun Obasanjo with the country’s highest award of the Order of the Eagle. Hichilema decorated Obasanjo alongside his counterparts – Liberian Ellen Sirleaf Johnson and Sierra Leonean Ernest Bai Koroma – with the most prestigious award on Thursday in Lusaka, alongside where the colourful ceremony was held. The Special Assistant on Media to the former Nigerian President, Kehinde Akinyemi said that the honours were contained in a government official gazette, which was made available on Wednesday. In the publication with No 7146, Vol. LVIII, No. 72, the gazette notice No.1067 of 2022 of the Constitution of Zambia notifying the public on the honours, was signed by the Acting Secretary of the Cabinet, P.K Kangwa. According to him, “the Presidential Honours and Awards (Conferment) Notice, 2022. It is notified for public information that in exercise of the powers contained in Article 92 (2)(g) of the Constitution of Zambia, the President, Mr. Hakainde Hichilema, will, at the Special investiture ceremony to be held on 14th July, 2022, confer Honours and Awards specified in the schedule on the persons named in the schedule. “The Order of the Eagle of Zambia 1st Div – Olusegun Obasanjo – Nigeria, Ellen Sirleaf Johnson – Liberia, Ernest Bai Koroma – Sierra Leone.” Reacting on behalf of awardees, Obasanjo said the honour would serve as encouragement to do more for the continent. “On behalf of the awardees, I wish to thank you for the honour done us. “We take this honour as encouragement to do more. Whatever we have done for Africa and for humanity to make you honour us, we assure you we will do more.”    Standard Chartered officially launches US$40m new Head Office Building in Zambia In "News" Former Nigerian President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, has appealed to the government of Zambia to adhere to the rule of law and human rights principles in dealing with the opposition in the Southern African country of Zambia. In "News" Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has held talks with Zambia’s President Edgar Lungu and he is to visit imprisoned opposition leader Hakainde Hichilema. In "News"