Superstar singer, Burna Boy has released the cover of his much-anticipated 6th studio album- Love, Damini. The birthday-themed cover shows Burna wearing a black suit on a white shirt; with several candles laced around two beautiful-looking cakes. The album is set to be released on Friday, July 8th – a week after he celebrated his 31st year birthday. The album cover was shot by Nigerian/American Photographer and CreativeDirector, Mikey Oshai. He disclosed that the project would highlight his personal struggles.“Love, Damini is a personal body of work. It’s about the ups and downs, thegrowth, the L’s and W’s. “I’m excited to share this journey and roll [it] out with you all,” he hadwritten. Burna Boy recently released the full tracklist of the album which features guestappearance from Ed Sheeran, Popcaan, Victony, J Balvin, Blxst, JHus,Kehlani, Ladysmith, and Black Mambazo. The 19-track album includes already released songs “Kilometre” andinternational hit/chart topping single-“Last Last”; which Burna Boy revealed inan interview that American R & B star Toni Braxton gets 60% of the royaltiesfrom the song- a sample of Braxton’s 2000 R&B hit, ‘He Wasn’t ManEnough’. The African Giant promised to drop new teasers off his forthcoming “LoveDamini” album every day until the 8th July official release dateHe made this known in a tweet: “Apparently I was born just after midnight, so I’m gna be dropping teaserseveryday till release at midnight #LOVEDAMINI Keeping to his promise, he teased Track 5 “Cloak and Dagger” in a follow-uptweet.    Damini Ogulu, the Grammy-winning singer popularly known as Burna Boy, turned 31 years old on Saturday, and it has been cakes, balloons and his fans celebrating him on and off the state. He was on stage at the Sumol Summer Fest in Portugal, holding white balloons. Another video shows him… In "Entertainment" By Adeleye Adegboyega Burna Boy unveils pre-released single, Pheelz drops Finesse East Africa remix; Timaya, Victony, Gyakie and other new music released this week. Grammy Award winning Afrobeats star- Burna Boy gave his fans a wonderful teaser of what to expect when his much anticipated 6th studio album- Love, Damini… In "Entertainment" By Chinasa Afigbo If you attended or watched the recap of Burna Boy’s recent live concert at Madison Square Garden (MSG), New York, you must have noticed the fierce female backup singer swaying to the rhythm of the moment, as she rendered lilting vocals. Her name is Christina Matovu, a… In "Entertainment"