By Ayo Onikoyi Symphony, a Nollywood musical blockbuster movie with youth and music as its central theme, is set to hit cinemas on the 9th of September, 2022. ‘Symphony’ is a beautiful and well-told story about life, love, dreams, success, trials, societal failure and the resultant effects. The movie reflects the travails of a typical talented African youth, struggling to overcome all odds in order to breakthrough. Shot in exotic locations across Lagos, the film parades an array of multi-award winning African stars such as Nigeria’s ace entertainer D’banj (Oladapo Oyebanjo); Ghanaian movie legend Jackie Appiah; Kenyan superstar diva Tanasha Donna and Nollywood legends and stars like Lanre Hassan (popularly known as Iya Awero), Bolaji Amusan (Mr. Latin), Kalu Ikeagu, Efa Iwara, Scarlet Gomez, Daniel Abua, Doris Okorie, among others. D’banj and Tanasha Donna made their acting debuts in ‘Symphony’, while Kaleb Iyoha (a.k.a. Mo’Kross) and Sandra Okunzuwa played Slade and Lolita, the lead roles with yet another debutant in Victor Adeshiyan (a.k.a. VJ CrazyLife) who played Slade’s bosom friend.    Nothing else matters to music legend and entertainer, Oladapo Daniel Oyebanjo, otherwise known as D’banj as he assumes the legendary status in the music industry other than using the occasion of his birthday to show love to people. In "News" By Benjamin Njoku Controversial Nollywood actor, Uche Maduagwu has said that D'banj's biggest mistake in life was parting ways with his former business partner, Michael Collins Ajereh, better known as Don Jazzy. D'banj and Don Jazzy co-founded the now-defunct record label Mo’ Hits Records in 2004. The superstars announced their… In "Entertainment" D'Banj @42 Award-winning singer, Oladapo Daniel Oyebanjo aka D’banj marked his 42nd birthday yesterday at the EbonyLife Place, Victoria Island, Lagos. In commemoration of his birthday, the talented singer splashed 1million naira to a lucky fan named Joseph Victor. According to D'banj, the winner emerged after participating in a contest… In "News"