An Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court, on Thursday, sentenced a man, Michake Ogbar, to life imprisonment for defiling and raping his three daughters aged  10 years, 20 years and 24 years. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that  Justice Abiola Soladoye held that  prosecution  proved beyond reasonable doubt, the charge of defilement and rape brought against Ogbar. “Evidence before the court shows that the prosecution has proved the case of defilement and rape before this court. “The defendant, who is the father of the three daughters, is found guilty as charged, as the burden of proof has been discharged. “This is a very sad case,” she held. The judge said it was disheartening that the man defiled and raped his daughters for years in the absence of his wife. “It is disgrace to parenthood. “The defendant ravished his own daughters in turn, committing incest. It is rather shameful and most perverted. “The defendant is hereby  found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment on  count one. “On  count two, he is sentenced to life imprisonment and on count three,  he is also  sentenced to  life imprisonment,” the judge held. Soladoye  said that the sentence would run concurrently, and ordered that the convict should have his name written in the  Lagos State Sexual Offenders Register. NAN reports that Lagos State Government, which brought the charge, presented six witnesses during the trial. It stated that the offences violated Sections 137 and 258(1) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015.    An Ado-Ekiti High Court on Tuesday sentenced a 30-year-old man, Shola Oguntuase to life imprisonment for defiling a 14-year-old JSS 3 student. The convict, was arraigned and tried before Justice Adekunle Adeyeye on one-count charge of defilement. Delivering judgment, Justice Adeyeye, held that the prosecution proved its the against the… In "Metro" An Ado-Ekiti High Court has sentenced one Tajudeen Usman, 50, to life imprisonment for raping a four-year-old minor. Usman was arraigned before Justice Lekan Ogunmoye on a one-count charge of rape.He was said to have defiled the minor on Aug. 21, 2020 at Ikere Ekiti. In a statement to the… In "Metro" An Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court on Wednesday sentenced a 54-year-old pastor, Michael Oliseh, to life imprisonment for defiling his friend’s 12-year-old twin daughters. Delivering judgment, Justice Abiola Soladoye, described Oliseh, the assistant Pastor of the Anointed Chosen Vessel Ministry in Okota, Lagos, as a “serial rapist” who… In "Metro"