A married couple with a 37-year age gap have revealed they are willing to spend up to £120,000 on a surrogate to have a baby together. And this is despite the fact one of them already has seven children. Cheryl, 61, and Quran McCain, 24, have taken TikTok by storm by sharing details about their relationship with more than 2.3 million followers on just one account (@Kingqurannewpage). Although there is a 37-year age gap, the couple got married in September 2021 and are now ready to take the next step together by having a baby. The pair are willing to go to great lengths to make their dream possible – and are planning on spending a significant sum on the woman who will carry their child. It will be Quran’s first baby but this ‘isn’t Cheryl’s first rodeo.’ She is already a mother-of-seven and grandmother-of-17. ‘Surrogates cost anywhere between £6,000-£120,000; we are lucky we have found the surrogate we have chosen,’ Quran exclusively told NeedToKnow.online. ‘The baby will arrive late spring 2023. ‘This is not Cheryl’s first rodeo, she is a mother to seven and grandmother to 17. I have no kids yet, besides the one on the way.’ The couple, who are currently living in Rome, Italy, are very excited to welcome the addition to their family. Quran, who is a social media influencer and OnlyFans star, said: ‘I am extremely excited, this is something I always wanted, to have a family with the love of my life.’ Cheryl, who works as a cashier and OnlyFans model, added: ‘Another baby would be amazing for me and my family on this new journey. ‘I have already planned on shopping for the baby and I’m hoping that we can throw a baby shower.’ The pair also shared a new video on their TikTok announcing their plans, which has garnered more than 285,000 views so far. In the clip, Quran rubs his wife’s belly as the words ‘when them flashbacks hit’ shown across the screen. Reactions have been strong to the TikTok and to the baby news. Some are delighted for the pairing while others are not so sure. ‘Flashbacks to life support,’ wrote one user. ‘This has to be illegal,’ commented another.   President Joe Biden did not appear to take kindly to Elon Musk‘s recent opinion about the financial state of America. According to Reuters, Musk told his Tesla executives via email that he had a “super bad feeling” about the future of the US economy, prompting him to cease hiring and lay off a whopping… In "Foreign" Dear Bunmi, I became a widow some five years ago and my husband left us well-provided for. I have three lovely kids aged between 20 and 14. Early last year, I met my current boyfriend who is 37, though he looks more matured than his age. His divorce from his wife… In "Relationships" By Godfrey Bivbere & Mercy Okpara The Federal Government has been urged to work towards taking advantage of the 136,500 global seafarers' vacancies facing the international shipping community. Giving the charge in Lagos, former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, Timi Omatseye, said there are 120,000… In "Business"