The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has committed over N500 million to the Nigerian universities and other tertiary institutions across the country to facilitate research and innovations. Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof Umar Danbatta who disclosed this at forum with Academia, Industry and Other Stakeholders in Kano at the weekend. He  said the funds have been committed to research grants to universities and tertiary institutions, including professorial chairs in the universities in salient areas to drive development in the Nigerian telecommunications industry. Danbatta said the Commission is now focused on supporting the academia in the commercialisation of the prototypes from these innovative researches as this is relevant to the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy’s policy towards achieving indigenous technology for sustainable development  of our country.  He said the roundtable organized by the Commission was to provide the necessary platform to support the commercialisation of locally- developed telecommunications innovations which NCC has been sponsoring.  “The Commission collaborates with the Academia in maximising the contributions of tertiary institutions to innovations and sustainable development of the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) industry as finance is needed to drive possible success of these endeavours.”  Danbatta said these efforts has enabled the Commission to contribute to national efforts to ensure overall growth of the industry and create wealth for innovators, saying all these are fundamental to the objective of the NCC’s R&D-oriented programmes. On the basis of these, he said ideas, inventions, and improvements that emanate from the academia are required by the industry for improved efficiency and productivity.  Danbatta said appreciable impacts had been achieved since the Commission reinvigorated research grants for telecommunications-based research innovations from Nigerian academics, focusing on successful commercialisation of locally developed solutions to foster and deepen the uptake of indigenous technology by Nigerians. NCC’s Executive Commissioner, Technical Services, Engr Ubale Maska, also disclosed that the Commission, has so far awarded 49 telecom- based research grants to the academia  out of which 10 prototypes were successfully developed and displayed to industry stakeholders.  He said the R&D efforts of the Commission were aimed at actualizing some of the 8-point Pillar Eight of National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS), 2020-2030, focusing on Indigenous Content Development and Adoption. The event, which featured series of panel session discussions, particularly focusing on sub-themes that addressed the overarching theme of the stakeholders forum from different perspectives, drew participants from the academia, telecoms industry stakeholders, financial services sector and other critical sectors or the economy. Participants deliberated on understanding commercialisation and entrepreneurial model within the university and industry perspectives as well as brainstormed on investment/ funding opportunities for prototype development, sustainability and the sale of new products in the market place.    By Prince Osuagwu The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) said it has committed over N500 million to the Nigerian universities and other tertiary institutions across the country to facilitate research and innovations. Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof Umar Danbatta disclosed this at a two-day Regional Roundtable with… In "News" By Hussain Rabiu The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC Prof. Umar Danbata has been inducted into the Governing Council of The Nigerian Academy of Engineering NAE. Danbatta’s induction, according to the Council was as a result of his outstanding role in the development of engineering profession… In "News" MTN Nigeria yesterday confirmed that it will roll out 5G network by August 24, 2022. The Operator disclosed this at the 90th edition of the telecom consumer parliament, organised by the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC in Ikeja, Lagos In "Technology"