By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja Presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has again knocked the standard bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar who he described as thriving in bigotry. According to him, Atiku had in 2007 promised him the vice presidential ticket, adding that the former vice president also used the same deception on Rivers state Governor, Nyesom Wike who he promised the vice presidential ticket after the PDP primary election. He recalled how Atiku had fought vigorously in 1993 to become the running mate to the late Chief MKO Abiola after losing the presidential ticket to the deceased. Tinubu had earlier on Saturday issued a statement through his campaign organization, accusing Atiku of high level desperation to become Nigeria’s president. However, in another statement issued Saturday evening by his Media Office and signed by Tunde Rahman, the APC candidate said “all Nigerians should feel great pity and sadness for the candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar”. He said Atiku in a desperate attempt to win the election by stoking religious bias, has reduced himself to uttering baseless lies on national television. Atiku had on Friday featured on Arise Television where he said Tinubu ditched him in 2007 because he (Atiku) was opposed to having a Muslim-Muslim ticket. “We are saddened to see such a man become unhinged from the truth. So obsessed is he with his quest for office, Atiku is willing to render any form of untruth if he thinks it might gain him a single vote. Atiku may want to be president. However, all he has shown is that he is a pathological liar, ” the APC presidential candidate said. According to him, “whatever moral compass he (Atiku) had has been lost. During a 22nd July television interview, Atiku assaulted historic truth by lying that he did not name Tinubu as his running mate in 2007 on the Action Congress ticket because Atiku did not want a Muslim as his running mate.” Tinubu recalled that Atiku was not among those who founded the defunct Action Congress. “It was the actual founders of the AC who offered the party’s flag to Atiku because of the need to fight the authoritarian designs then President Obasanjo and the PDP had on Nigeria’s democracy. “At that moment, Atiku had been unceremoniously pushed aside if not out of the PDP by Obasanjo. We needed to rally all forces to confront the one-party state Obasanjo had in mind. Atiku was simply a beneficiary of this collective duty to fight the attack on multi-party democracy the PDP had launched. “I feel sorry for dear old Atiku. Love of his own ambition has eclipsed his relationship with the truth and an honest account of the past. We formed the AC without his knowledge. When President Obasanjo virtually exiled him from the PDP, we lent him our support by giving him the AC platform for the 2007 election. “Let me say openly that Atiku offered me the vice presidential ticket in 2007. Let me also say that my religion has not changed. When he offered the position to me, I was a Muslim and I believe he was aware of my religious faith at the time. “Atiku’s calculations and deceit had nothing to do with religion or his sensitivity to it. His conduct has everything to do with what we discovered about his paucity of character and love of intrigues. “True to form, Atiku, fifteen years later, promised HE Governor Nyesom Wike the same thing this electoral season and similarly reneged. Governor Wike is a Christian. “When it comes to intrigues, we can say that Atiku is without bias. He will attempt to lie and deceive both Christians and Muslims with equal vigour. “Atiku has no business raising the issue of a Muslim-Muslim ticket except as a hypocrite. Perhaps he believes people have forgotten his antics during the 1993 election. After he woefully lost his bid to be the presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party, what did he do? He canvassed and lobbied harder than anyone to become the running mate to late Chief MKO Abiola. When it benefitted him personally, Atiku did not see anything wrong with Muslim-Muslim ticket. He saw everything right in such a ticket as long as he was on it. “Now, Atiku criticizes my selection as running mate based on religion. He does so because he cannot criticize it on other grounds. If Atiku were to have one of his rare moments of honesty, he would admit that the person I selected as my running mate is more qualified for the position than the man who joined him. And this conclusion has nothing to do with religious faith. It has everything to do with competence, experience, ability, and vision. “My running mate and I are here to build a more just and prosperous society for all Nigerians, be they Christian, Muslim or adherents of other faiths. It seems that Atiku is here trying to build an edifice of lies and call that the house into which Nigerians should walk and reside. He will fail in this sad attempt to trick an entire nation. “Let me restate my position on religion and politics. When I decided that Senator Shettima was the best selection as my running mate, I listened to and weighed in serious balance the advice received from a broad and representative array of wonderful Nigerians who deeply care about this nation and the path it must go. “Some people counselled that I should select a Christian to garner support of the Christian community. Some said I should select a Muslim for a similar reason. I clearly could not do both. Both positions had merit and right on their side. But neither position expressed what was most right and needed for the moment in which we find ourselves and the nation. “All my life, the decisions regarding the team supporting me have always been guided by the principles of competence, innovation, compassion, integrity, fairness, and adherence to excellence. I was not going to depart from these principles at this important juncture. In fact, it was more important than ever before that I adhere to these principles. “As Governor of Lagos State, these principles helped me assemble one of the most capable governing cabinets any state or this nation has seen. I trust in these principles to allow them to, once more, guide me to construct another exemplary team that can do Nigeria proud. “In this crucial moment, where so much is at stake, we must prioritize leadership, competence, and the ability to work as a team over other considerations. “This is the standard I will use to select the rest of my campaign team and if you elect me as your president when I staff my government. I will select the best people for the right jobs so that we can construct a better Nigeria now and for generations yet to come.”   Presidential Candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has taken his counterpart in the opposition Peoples Democratic Party PDP and former vice president, Atiku Abubakar to the cleaners, saying the opposition candidate is a desperate liar who should never be entrusted with the presidency. In "Politics" Tinubu and Atiku By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja The presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has described his counterpart in the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, as a desperate liar who should never be entrusted with the presidency. Tinubu spoke in… In "Politics" Arise TV yesterday aired an interview with Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP which brought a fresh air to the unfolding political discourse in the country. In "Columns"