By Biodun Busari The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, SERAP, has said it will take a legal action against President Muhammadu Buhari over the lingering strike embarked on by public universities’ lecturers. SERAP said this on its verified Twitter handle @SERAPNigeria on Friday. Read Also: Attempts by IPPIS mgt to finger varsity workers as only opposition, sheer blackmail – ASUU Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, started a strike action on February 14 to demand, among other things, the Federal Government release money for revitalisation, pay the earned academic allowances, and put a stop to proliferation of universities among others. The strike which has lasted more than 130 days, jeopardising the future of Nigerian students, also caught the attention of the organised labour who are threatening to protest. The Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, on Thursday, said it would embark on a one-day protest to force the Federal Government respond to ASUU’s demands. Reacting to the impasse between the government and lecturers, SERAP said: “BREAKING: The ASUU strike which has kept poor children at home while the children of Nigeria’s politicians attend private schools, is a CRIME AGAINST HUMANITY. “We’re suing the Buhari administration over its violation of poor children’s rights to education and equal protection.” Vanguard News    ASUU President, Prof. Emmanuel Osodeke By Biodun Busari The Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, has used a total of 1,404 days to go on strike since the inception of this democratic dispensation in 1999. This figure means that the universities’ lecturers have used three years and 10 months to… In "Features" *Wants monies from donors returned By Joseph Erunke ABUJA--THE leadership of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU,has rejected a crowdfunding platform initiated to end the ongoing strike by lecturers of public universities in the country. The crowdfunding platform initiated by acclaimed philanthropist and owner of Human Rights Radio,Ahmed Isah,was… In "Don't Miss" As Nigerian university students remain shut out of their classrooms as a result of protracted and frustrating strike embarked upon by lecturers, ActionAid Nigeria, AAN, Monday, moved to mobilize religious organsations, students’ unions, trade unions, Civil Society Organisations, CSOs, join the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, to press government… In "News"