In Kaduna State, a former Secretary of Birnin-Gwari Local Government council, Abubakar Muhammad Aliyu(Mai Yalo) who was kidnapped by bandits has been killed.  Mai Yalo was kidnapped in his farm about 3 weeks ago.  Chairman of Birnin Gwari Emirate Progressive Union (BEPU), Kasim Ishaq Kasai in a statement on Friday, said  the bandits collected  ransom but killed the former about 11 days ago.  “We were told of his death yesterday, Thursday, by his younger brother who escaped from the bandits den. ” According to his family and friends, the Salatul ga’ib in respect of him will take place on Saturday, 10th Dhul-Hijjah, 1443 (9th July, 2022) at the Izala Eid Ground, near Airforce Base, Funtua Road, B/Gwari, Kaduna State immediately after Eid el-Kabeer  prayer. I ” Those who cannot be at Birnin Gwari at that time can pray for the repose of his soul wherever they may be,” he said. Communities in Birnin-Gwari Emirate have suffered attacks by gunmen in recent times, even as many locals have since relocated from their places of origin to safer locations.    Disturbed about incessant killings and abductions along the Kaduna- Birnin-Gwari highway, the title holder of 'Dan Lawal Birnin-Gwari, Alhaji Abdurauf  Zubairu has advised that travellers should desist from travelling on that road for now, until when the security situation improves.  In "News" Disturbed by the activities of bandits in Birnin-Gwari emirate of Kaduna State, a community leader in the emirate and  former Managing Director of the Kaduna State Media Corporation(KSMC), Alhaji Zubairu Idris Abdulra’uf, has welcomed the directive by the  Zamfara State Governor that people should resort to self defence , disclosing… In "News" File photo By Ibrahim Hassan-Wuyo Disturbed by the incessant killings and abductions of innocent travelers along the Kaduna- Birnin-Gwari highway, a royal father and the 'Dan Lawal Birnin-Gwari, Alhaji Abdurauf Zubairu, has advised that travelers should boycott the road, for now, pending when the security situation improves. He told the BBC… In "News"