As the Osun governorship election comes to an end and Ademola Adeleke is declared the winner by INEC, fans of Nigerian afrobeat legend, David Adeleke, professionally known as Davido are not taking it likely with upcoming controversial hip-hop artiste, Habeeb Okikiola popularly known as Portable who declared his support for the incumbent governor of the state, Gboyega Oyetola. Portable had a few days ago before the election, joined the All Progressives Congress, APC, to campaign for Oyetola in Osun state and on all social media platforms, stating that he was paid by the ruling party to do so. Doing the APC bidding, Portable released a video on Instagram where he was with Oyetola declaring support for him. In another picture of him and his supporters, he wrote: “Akoi APC, Akoi Oyetola Lekan si. 4+4=8. O ti lo.” While it appeared like moral support for Davido to pitch for Adeleke in his political ventures, Portable sees his own adventure as a way of making money and doubling his hustle as the slang always goes. However, Senator Ademola Adeleke, has been declared the winner of the Osun governorship held on Saturday, July 16, 2022. Adeleke polled PDP 403,371 to defeat Oyetola and the APC with 375,027 votes, while Lasun Yusuf of Labour Party, LP polled 2,729. Following the news, Portable is currently trending as many dragged him for betraying Davido who helped pushed him to the limelight. officialdanielrolland : Portable oooo ronkeyzee : Otuti zeh ooo…. Make portable do fog jump come back Lagos sweetest_queen_ever : Where Portable ronkeyzee : Make Portable sweep the whole of Osun with broom before going back to Lagos princebeejayoflife : Help me call Portable ooo badboi8rain : Portable how far mide_fwesh : What will Portable beg for again now APC lost to PDP lmao. In this life make we get sense and also lastly no be everything be gra gra!! misschide : Portable will not like this ooo. So y’all he ready for war   Osun state governorship election expected to take place in less than 24 hours has gone beyond Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Senator Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In "Entertainment"   It is Osun State governorship election. Although 15 candidates were cleared by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, focus is on incumbent Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress, APC; Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP; Lasun Yusuf of the Labour Party, LP, and Akin Ogunbiyi of… In "Osun election" A video presently making the rounds on social media shows him hugging his uncle (Sen. Ademola Adeleke) who is the PDP's governorship candidate. In "Don't Miss"