The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has extended the deadline for its Continuous Voter Registration CVR exercise to July 31. INEC National Commissioner in charge of Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr. Festus Okoye in a statement Friday in Abuja said the Commission had met in an extraordinary session earlier in the day and discussed among other things, the suspension of the ongoing CVR. “This followed the judgement delivered by the Federal High Court on Wednesday 13th July 2022 in which it dismissed the suit filed by the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) which is seeking an extension of the exercise beyond 30th June 2022. “The Court has affirmed that INEC is at liberty to appoint a date of its choice to suspend the CVR, provided it is not later than 90 days before the date fixed for the General Election as provided in Sec. 9(6) of the Electoral Act 2022”, he stated.  He said in compliance with the interim injunction of the Court pending the determination of the substantive suit, and in order to enable more Nigerians to register, the Commission continued with the CVR beyond 30th June 2022. “For this reason, the CVR has already been extended beyond 30th June 2022 for a period of 15 days. “With the judgement of the Federal High Court, all legal encumbrances have now been removed. Accordingly, the Commission has taken the following decisions: “The CVR is hereby extended for another two weeks until Sunday 31st July 2022, thereby bringing the total duration of the extension to 31 days (1st – 31st July 2022). “The exercise has also been extended to eight hours daily from 9.00am – 5.00pm instead of the current duration of six hours (9.00am – 3.00pm) daily; and “The exercise is also extended to include weekends (Saturdays and Sundays) as against only weekdays. “We appreciate that the timeframe may be tight for many prospective registrants, but there is a lot that the Commission is required to do under the electoral legal framework in relation to voter registration and compilation of the register that will require time to accomplish”. According to him, the Commission is required to clean-up of the register to remove multiple registrants using the Automated Biometric Identification System (ABIS).  He added that INEC is also required to consolidate the national register of voters (existing voters and new registrants) and display same on Polling Unit basis for each of the 8,809 Registration Areas (Wards) across the 774 Local Government Areas nationwide for public scrutiny. “This lasts for a period of one week. On the basis of a new projection of 95 million voters, on the basis of 10 voters per page, the Commission has to print 9,500,000 pages for the display; “Print millions of Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) for all fresh registrants and applicants for transfer and replacement of lost or damaged PVCs; “Ensure that there is ample time for voters to collect their PVCs ahead of the 2023 General Election; “Print the final register of voters in triplicate for the 2023 General Election involving a projected 28,500,000 pages for accreditation and display at 176,846 polling units for national elections (Presidential and National Assembly) on 25th February 2023 and State elections (Governorship and State Assembly) on 11th March 2023; and “Make copies of the updated national register of voters available to political parties not later than 30 days to the date fixed for the General Election. “We appeal for the patience and understanding of all Nigerians as we conclude the exercise which will resume after the 2023 General Election.  “We observed that following the continuation of the exercise beyond 30th June 2022, many of the registration centres recorded low turnout of prospective registrants. With this two-week extension, we appeal to eligible citizens not to wait until the last few days before they inundate the centres again to register. “We appreciate the interest of Nigerians to register and participate in the electoral process and once again reiterate our commitment to credible and transparent elections. This can only be achieved with the support and cooperation of all Nigerians”, Okoye added.   By Miftaudeen Raji Against the backdrop of public outcry, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has agreed to extend the ongoing Continuous Voters' Registration (CVR) exercise by 60 days. Earlier, the House of Representatives had last Wednesday urged INEC to extend the deadline for the continuous voter registration by an… In "Top Stories" By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has told registered political parties in the country that it would not extend the July 15, 2022 deadline for nomination of Governorship and States Assembly candidates. National Commissioner in charge of Information and Voter Education Committee, Barr. Festus Okoye in… In "Politics" The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC has agreed to extend the Continuous Voters Registration, CVR, exercise, the House of Representatives said yesterday. In "News"