By Biodun Busari Former Senator representing Kogi West, Dino Melaye, has reacted to the choice of Sen Kashim Shettima as the running mate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Melaye said the decision had jeopardised the chances of APC winning 2023 presidential election, adding that the ruling party’s chieftains and stakeholders have rancours already. Read Also: Take care of your health, Kwankwaso advises Tinubu ahead 2023 polls According to Melaye, who was a member of APC before he defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2019 where he began his political career, the Muslim-Muslim ticket of the APC is self-destruct. Melaye said these in a video posted on his Instagram handle, @dinomelaye, on Monday, speaking with hilarity in Yoruba.  Nigerians have voiced mixed reactions over Tinubu’s decision to pick Shettima as his vice, which makes two persons of the same religion. In his reaction via the video post, Melaye said: “APC don scatter. Fun ra won, won o fun ra won logun je. APC don pafuka. Fire alarm don go off. APC Muslim-Muslim ticket, wahala ti so, won tin ja won tin ja. Emi la o ni yosi?” Translated: “APC has scattered. By their own hands shall they poison themselves. “APC is doomed. Fire alarm has gone off. APC Muslim-Muslim ticket, problem has erupted. They are having rancor. Why won’t we be happy?” Vanguard News   Former lawmaker representing Kogi West, Dino Melaye has ruled out the presidential candidates of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Labour Party, LP, Peter Obi; and New Nigeria Peoples Party, NNPP, Rabiu Kwankanso as threat to the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Abubakar Atiku.  In "Politics" The Elder statesman, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai has backed the decision of the Presidential candidate of All Progressive Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmad Tinubu on the choice of Kashim Shettima (another Muslim) saying the Muslim-Muslim ticket can win election In "News" Reactions have greeted the choice of Sen Kashim Shettima as the running mate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu. In "Don't Miss"