Ivana Trump, Donald Trump’s first wife and the mother of three of his children, has died aged 73. “She was a wonderful, beautiful, and amazing woman, who led a great and inspirational life,” Mr Trump posted on his social media platform Truth Social. Ms Trump, who was born in what is now the Czech Republic, married the former president in 1977. They divorced 15 years later in 1992. They had three children together – Donald Jr, Ivanka and Eric Trump. Read Also: I didn’t write memo seeking to leave APC — Osinbajo The pair were notable public figures in New York in the 1980s and 1990s, and their split was the subject of intense public interest. The Trump family lauded her in a statement as “a force in business, a world-class athlete, a radiant beauty, and caring mother and friend”. “Ivana Trump was a survivor. She fled from communism and embraced this country,” the statement added. “She taught her children about grit and toughness, compassion and determination.” Mr Trump was her second husband. Her first, Alfred Winklmayr, was an Austrian ski instructor and friend who she reportedly married in order to obtain Austrian citizenship. That marriage allowed her to leave her communist home country – which was then Czechoslovakia – without defecting. A long-time skier, Ms Trump is said to have skied competitively in the country. But Mr Trump’s claims that she was an alternate on the 1972 Winter Olympics team were refuted in 1989 by a local Olympic official. While living in Canada in the 1970s, she worked as a ski instructor and model. On a work trip to New York City in 1976, she met Mr Trump while with a group of models. They were married the following year and quickly became a tabloid fixture. Over the course of their marriage, Ms Trump held several roles within the Trump Organization, including as manager of the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan. But Mr Trump reportedly locked her out of her office at the hotel in 1990 as they sparred over four pre-nuptial agreements. When the divorce settlement was finalised in 1992, Ms Trump had signed a non-disclosure agreement but also received $14m (£11.8m) and a mansion in Connecticut among other things. She was also married twice more: to Italian businessman Riccardo Mazzucchelli, from 1995-97; and to Italian actor Rossano Rubicondi, from 2008-09. Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani wrote on Twitter that Ms Trump was “a truly talented, creative and beautiful person”, who had “contributed greatly” to his city. “She lived the American Dream,” said Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, a top Trump ally. And media personality Piers Morgan described Ms Trump as “a fabulously entertaining lady and great interviewee who remained fiercely loyal to her ex-husband”. In 2017, she told ABC’s Good Morning America that she didn’t want to make Mr Trump’s current wife Melania jealous by calling him at the White House. “I’m basically first Trump wife. OK? I’m first lady,” she said. It was one of many memorable quotes from the former model. In a cameo role in the 1996 movie The First Wives Club, she told disgruntled divorcees: “Ladies, you have to be strong and independent. And remember, don’t get mad, get everything.” (BBC)   Donald Trump could take another shot at being US president and is unrepentant about the Capitol Riots he is accused of instigating. At the Faith and Freedom Coalition Conference yesterday in Nashville, he described the congressional investigation into what happened as ‘crazy’. The former president, who is accused of whipping… In "Foreign" President Donald Trump By Miftaudeen Raji The House committee investigating the January 6 Thursday night has indicted the former United States President Donald Trump on the tragic incident. According to the Chairman of the Committee, Bennie Thompson, Trump was not only aware of the violence that erupted after that day's… In "Foreign" The United States’ House of Representatives on its second public hearing of the month on Monday have selected a panel that will investigate the invasion of the Capitol Building on January 6, 2021. In "Foreign"