Pastor Poju Oyemade, the founder of The Covenant Nation (formerly the Covenant Christian Center) has taken down a tweet that stirred controversy after it was interpreted by netizens as a bias political comment. In a now-deleted tweet, Oyemade advised Nigerian youths not to “waste their enthusiasm on poorly planned projects“. However, the tweet was calculated by supporters of the Labour Party‘s presidential candidate, Peter Obi as an attempt to portray their candidate (Obi) as unprepared for the 2023 general election. Other netizens who perceived the message as a veiled strategy to sell the All Progressive Congress (APC) presidential candidate and flagbearer, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu were equally angry. Oyemade words, “Faith is not just blind belief or hoping for a miracle. Faith sees. Faith has her eyes opened and possesses the evidence upon which it builds its belief. Faith prepares long, sometimes for years just as Joseph did for the years of famine. Faith counts the cost before embarking. “Without having real evidence upon which you are acting nor preparation for the task, recognising real obstacles that lie ahead and making concrete plans, one is just being delusional about the outcome. The enthusiasm of the youth must not be wasted on poorly planned projects. “Noah spent months/years planning for the flood & he was operating in faith. Jesus said no man goes to battle without taking stock first nor lays the foundation of a tower without counting the cost first lest he will be mocked. Our faith is intelligent it doesn’t live in denial.” Reactions: This is the post that made us Bullying Pastor poju this morning. This so called cleric wanted to misleaded millions youth. pic.twitter.com/a9WbpOdoC6 Pastor Poju is one I hold in a very high esteem, however, I was deeply disappointed by that tweet, whether it's directed to OBIdient fans or not. It's really sad such is coming from him. #PeterObiTheNationalist #PeterObi4President2023 #PeterObiForPresident2023 Pastor Poju is one I hold in a very high esteem, however, I was deeply disappointed by that tweet, whether it's directed to OBIdient fans or not. It's really sad such is coming from him. #PeterObiTheNationalist #PeterObi4President2023 #PeterObiForPresident2023 The fact that Pastor Poju supported #Buhari in 2015 tells so much about his character! Let no one care about him! In #PeterObi we trust!    Noor Takaful Insurance Limited, the pioneer composite Takaful insurance firm in Nigeria, has distributed a total of N109,846,000.00 as surplus to participants (policyholders) who did not make claims on their insurance during the 2020 financial year. In "News" By Biodun Busari Nigerian users on Twitter have come for ex-Big Brother Naija’s housemate and model, Pere Egbi for saying former Governor of Anambra State and Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi joined a wrong party. Egbi, took to Twitter to express his views on the factional presidential candidates that… In "News" Founder of Centre for Value in Leadership, CVL, Prof Pat Utomi; veteran Nollywood actor, Richard Mofe-Damijo, RMD;  Founder of The Covenant Nation, TCN, Pastor Poju Oyemade; Convener at Alpha Leadership Conference, ALC, Pastor Tola Odutola; Lead Pastor of The Elevation Church, Lagos, Godman Akinlabi, and Dr. Sam Adeyemi of Daystar… In "News"