The Inter Party Advisory Council in Osun State has advised the Osun state governor elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke to make the state a pride of all states during his tenure. It’s Chairman, Comrade Wale  Adebayo in a congratulatory message commended the people of state for the peaceful conduct of 2022 governorship. Adebayo, also praised INEC, “who lived up to expectations in the discharge of its constitutional role and the innovations through the  introduction of BVAS technology which no doubt helped in strengthening the credibility of the electoral process.  The council also commended the security agencies, and the entire IPAC members for ensuring that the elections were violence free. “My heartfelt congratulations to the Governor Elect, Senator Ademola Nurudeen Adeleke on his victory at the polls.  “The victory is a testament of your grassroots appeal to the people of the state”. “We at IPAC urged Adeleke to use the mandate given to him by the good people of state to make Osun the pride of all States”  “Our prayer for the Governor Elect is that Almighty God will give you knowledge, wisdom and good judgment required to administer the affairs of the state”. Adebayo assured “the governor of working with him for the development and peace of our dear state.   The Inter-Party Advisory Council in Osun State has condemned the destruction of the campaign billboards of Senator Ademola Adeleke by political thugs. In a statement issued by the Chairman of the council, Comrade Wale Adebayo, in osogbo, Osun state capital on Sunday, said IPAC frowned at the acts, which could… In "News" The Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) in Osun State has frowned at a video trending online where the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party( PDP), Ademola Adeleke, boasted  in the full glare of everyone that he has arrived the state with foreign currency to be shared as inducements to sway the… In "News" ~We have tried to be fair and above board-  IPAC Chair The attention of Inter Party Advisory Council( IPAC), Osun State council has been drawn to a spurious claim by the Osun State PDP Governorship campaign Council accusing the council of bias and partisanship in the manner we responded to … In "News"