As Nigeria joined the rest of the world to mark this year’s World Family Planning Day, with the theme: “A world of 8 billion: Towards a resilient future for all – Harnessing opportunities and ensuring rights and choices for all”, stakeholders working to ensure efficient family planning programmes in Nigeria have urged the Federal government to redouble its efforts towards achieving the Family Planning, FP2030 commitments. The stakeholders under the auspices of the Africa Health Budget Network, AHBN, recalled that the Federal government had in March 2022 formally launched the 2030 FP commitment in Abuja with eight focus areas. The FP commitment states that: “By the end of 2030, Nigeria envisions a country where everyone including adolescents, young people, populations affected by crisis and other vulnerable populations are able to make informed choices, have equitable and affordable access to quality family planning and participate as equals in society’s development.” With the fast growing rate of the global population which currently stands at eight billion and Nigeria’s population which is estimated to be over 200 million, the call for concerted action on the part of the government to achieve the FP 2030 is timely. Nigeria’s commitment to allocate 1 percent of its health budget to family planning both at federal and state levels as part of efforts to achieve the FP2030 require concerted efforts and innovative financing so that family planning will be adequately catered for to all those in need of it. Apart from the recent launch of documents by the federal government, AHBN is worried that there are no tangible efforts by the government to ensure the FP 2030 is achieved so as to put the country’s population under check. It is even more worrisome that majority of the over 200 million people in Nigeria, 70 per cent of them are under the age of 30. The group further called on government at all levels to put modalities in place to ensure that the youth in the country are productively engaged through the provision of qualitative education and skill acquisitions so that they can contribute to the socio-economic growth of the country. In the views of MAYE Convener, Mrs Oyeyemi Pitan: “It is necessary to warn here that the youthful population can be an asset or burden to the country, depending on how the government tackles issues around them.” She said: “If not properly taken care of and given the needed attention, the youthful population can be a catastrophe leading to all manner of insecurity challenges including kidnapping, armed robbery and many other social vices. “We are calling on the federal government to maximize its bulging youthful population by improving on the quality of and access to education. “The issue of recurrent strike action in the education sector such as the ongoing strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) should be addressed once and for all.”She said the youth should also be empowered and given the relevant skills to enable them to contribute in resolving national challenges. Speaking, AHBN Coordinator, Aminu Magashi Garba further called on the government to also make family planning information, commodities and services available and accessible to all, especially those in hard to reach areas, “this will curb teenage pregnancy significantly.” Magashi Garba: “The Federal and state governments should take the issues of the provision of family planning commodities serious by ensuring its availability free of charge in all government clinics across the country. “This can be achieved by the payment of counterpart funding and the provision of funds for logistics by all tiers of governments, ” Magashi Garba added.   The Niger State Primary Health Care Development Agency (NSPHCDA) says more than 250,718 families embraced Family Planning (FP) from 2021 to May 2022 in the state. In "Health" Images from Indi-Genius podcast project's launch. Strong Enough Girls’ Empowerment Initiative (SEGEI), a women-led, youth-focused non-profit organization on Tuesday, June 7, launched the Indi-Genius podcast project, a bi-lingual (English and French) podcast series that will be implemented in Nigeria and Niger Republic.  Indi-Genius, according to SEGEI, would leverage creative oral… In "News" The Institute of Social Works of Nigeria (ISOWN) says it is collaborating with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) in providing professional services on fistula care and rehabilitation across the federation. In "News"