Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, rode a tricycle in demonstration of safety of the means of transportation just as he urged youths to embrace every opportunity with hardwork and dedication. Obasanjo personally rode the tricycle, popularly called Keke from the premises of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential  Library (OOPL), through Kuto under bridge, amidst greetings and jubilation by onlookers along the road. The onlookers expressed surprise at the former president riding the keke, a reaction Obasanjo said was fuelled by wrongful societal classification of all keke riders as miscreants and the tendency of young people avoiding the virtue of starting small. The president, along the route, stopped and picked a male passenger to demonstrate that riding in the tricycle is safe, if used properly and for people to learn how to start small and grow their craft. Speaking after returning to the OOPL premises, Obasanjo said he embarked on riding the Keke to demonstrate to the people that there was not nothing bad in riding the Keke and using same for commercial purpose. He said with tricycles and other small scale businesses, youths can be self employed and ultimately, become economically independent. He said when he recently distributed 85 Keke given young people across the nation, he received some feedback that made riding keke look like an inappropriate gift, even as some wondered if that was the best for young people. Obasanjo said,  “There is nothing wrong in young people starting small. The Keke is secure and safe when handled professionally and with discipline. In fact, you can plan your business the way you wish and earn income that you can deploy to other investments. And if you are able to get a second one, you can give that to someonelese. So you become self-employed and you have also employed somebody. Obasanjo said he had remained committed to the economic empowerment of young people through initiatives that can generate employment. This is how we csn increasingly address unemployment in Nigeria. He said, “I have always have passion for youths, empowerment and employment. When I started establishing farms, do you think I can run the farm alone?   “The people I employed on the farms  some of them are as educated as PhD. There are veterinary doctors among them, Agric economist and some people that are well educated. Some of my children that have PhD are still working with me.  “The other time I checked the people that are working with us directly in our various establishments, we have over 5,000 and most of them are youths. I have always had passion for youths because there is no substitute for employment. Expressing delight at riding in the tricycle personally driven by Obasanjo, the passenger, who simply identified himself as Lamidi, said the day will be memorable in his life.   The Youth Development Centre of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library on Saturday distributed 85 tricycles, worth N85 million, to beneficiaries drawn from all the 36 States of the federation, and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. In "News" By James Ogunnaike, Abeokuta Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, told Nigerian youths that their tomorrow would never come if they continue to leave the affairs of the country in the hands of those ruining it. Obasanjo, who spoke at ‘OBJ @85 Free Keke Programme’ held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential… In "News" JUST IN: Soludo declares curfew, bans motorcycles, keke, shuttle buses from operating on Mondays In "News"