By Kingsley Omonobi – Abuja Troops of Operation Safe Haven have neutralized several bandits in sustained efforts at maintaining their mandate in the North Central zone of the country and ensuring a hitch free and peaceful Sallah celebration.  A statement by Major General Bernard onyeuko, Director, Defence Media Operations said, “Notably, on 7 and 8 July 2022, troops of Operation Safe Haven in conjunction with Plateau State Police Command, arrested 2 notorious kidnappers, Abdulrazaq Umar and Idris Abdullahi, at Beco Junction Heipang District, Barkin Ladi Local Government Area, Plateau State.  “Suspects confessed to have carried out several kidnapping activities within Plateau and Bauchi States including the murder of Alhaji Saleh Abdulhamid (Shaba) at Ex Land Village on 22 Jun 22. Suspects further revealed one  Mallam Buhari Umar as the leader of the gang.  “However, while enroute the criminals hideout, suspects attempted to escape and were neutralized. “Similarly, on 9 July 2022, troops of Operation Safe Haven conducted a raid Operation at MailafiaA, Nasama, Digon Filli and Gidan Waya all in Jema’a Local Government Area of Kaduna State and arrested 2 Armed Robbers; Mr George Yakubu and George Joseph aged 26 and 25 years respectively. “Items recovered from the suspects includes; 3 Fabricated AK 47 Riffles, 1 Knife, 1 Cutting Hoe, 1 Cutter and 1 x Spanner amongst others.  “Also, on the same day, troops responded to a distress call that  gunmen attacked a Toyota Hummer Bus with Registration Number LFA 322 YR Nasarawa at Digon Filli village, Jema’a Local Government Area of Kaduna State.  “Troops mobilized to the scene and rescued 9 passengers who were held hostage.  “The military high command commends troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN for their efforts and encourages the general public to avail troops with credible and timely information on criminal activities.”    Troops neutralize 7 bandits rescue 6 Kidnap victims in - DHQ In "News" Troops arrest 4 kidnappers, neutralise 3 bandits in Benue In "News" The Defence Headquarters says the troops of Operation Whirl Stroke have arrested four kidnappers, neutralised three bandits and rescued a kidnapped victim in recent operations in parts of Benue. The Director, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, made this known in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. Onyeuko said the… In "News"