Presidential Candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has disclaimed reports of a meeting between him and opposition Governor of Rivers state, Nyesom Wike in France ahead of the 2023 general election. Tinubu had recently flown to France in what his handlers said was a continuation of high-level engagements with stakeholders. However, a chieftain of the party in Lagos State, Joe Igbokwe had been quoted by a section of the media as confirming a meeting between the duo. On Friday night, the Tinubu Media Office in a statement signed by Tunde Rahman said although the APC standard bearer holds Gov. Wike in high esteem, such a meeting never took place. He said; “Asiwaju Tinubu’s supposed meeting with Governor Wike in France is Fake News”. Part of the statement reads; “We have seen a viral social media post made by one of the chieftains of All Progressives Congress in Lagos State and media reports emanating from same about a supposed meeting in France between APC Presidential Standard-bearer, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and His Excellency, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State. “It has become imperative to set the record straight. Although Asiwaju Tinubu is presently in France, he didn’t have any meeting with Governor Wike whether in that country or anywhere whatsoever.  “This, however, does not detract from the fact that the APC presidential candidate holds Governor Wike in high esteem. And given the national and across-party lines appeal of Asiwaju Tinubu’s candidature, he will not hesitate to meet any important national leader when desirable. “As made public earlier, Asiwaju Tinubu is in France for some important engagements. He will return to the country shortly. “We would like, once again, to advise journalists to always cross-check their information with appropriate officers before rushing to press to avoid unintended errors”, Rahman counselled.   2023: Tinubu off to France for further consultations In "News" By Miftaudeen Raji The main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP has dismissed speculations that its Selection Committee has settled for Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike as the party’s vice-presidential candidate. Vanguard had reported that the PDP Selection Committee, had yesterday, met to fulfill its mandate of recommending a running… In "Latest News" Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is meeting with Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State behind closed-door, Vanguard has learnt. In "News"