By Biodun Busari The Senate has summoned the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, over the depreciation of the naira. Reports revealed a United States dollar is exchanged to N658 in a parallel market on Wednesday. The depreciation of the currency fuelled the lawmakers’ decision to invite the CBN governor following a motion by Olubunmi Adetunmbi, senator representing Ekiti north. Contributing to the debate, Sani Musa, senator representing Niger east, said the naira would appreciate only if the country become a productive one. “Let’s eat what we have; let’s do with what we have. Naira will continue to appreciate until we start manufacturing,” Musa said. On her part, Biodun Olujimi, senator representing Ekiti south, accused the CBN of not taking responsibility which has led to the crash of naira. “Someone should be able to say I have failed, and that is the CBN,” Olujimi said. “Most of what is happening is because people are taking out the dollar and selling and bringing them back in — we should be penalising somebody for what has happened to the naira-dollar rate.” “The time has come for us to look holistically into what is happening. What is happening to the dollar is a replica of what is happening to Nigeria.” The Red Chamber asked the apex bank to stop the express deterioration of the value of the naira.   YOUTHS in the North Central part of the country operating under the aegis of the Middle Belt Youths Forum, MBYF, have faulted the call by the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU for the sack of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele. In "News" THE Arewa Consultative Youths Movement,ACYM, has condemned Wednesday's resolution of the House of Representatives over its attack on the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria,CBN, Dr Godwin Emefiele. In "News" By Babajide Komolafe The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has clarified the statement made by the Governor, Godwin Emefiele, at Tuesday’s post-Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting briefing, warning bank customers against converting the naira to foreign exchange, for electioneering purposes. Director, Corporate Communications Department, CBN, Mr. Osita Nwanisobi, made the… In "Economy"