Timi of Ede, Oba Munirudeen Lawal has directed residents and indigenes of Ede to vote massively for Senator Ademola  Adeleke and ignore 2026 false promise of governorship rotation to Osun West. In a statement issued by Senator Adeleke campaign spokesperson and made available by Olawale Rasheed, the monarch while receiving the PDP governorship candidate at Ede at his palace, tasked heads of families and quarters in the town to mobilise and ensure they deliver Ede votes to one of their own whom he described as capable and competent to govern the state. The royal father who recalled how Adeleke was rigged out in 2018 declared that Osun West now has another historical opportunity to claim the governorship especially as Adeleke has all what it takes to compete and win the election. While acknowledging the very popular support Adeleke has garnered across the state, the royal father thanked Osun indigenes for their show of love for Adeleke and tasked them to troop out enmasse and make their votes count. He specifically urged voters across Osun West not to wait for a 2026 governorship promise for Osun West, insisting that this is the time to vote for Osun West through the candidature of Senator Ademola Adeleke. The paramount ruler had on Wednesday strongly denied news reports quoting him as directing people of Ede to vote for Gboyega Oyetola, describing the news as “fabricated lie” The traditional ruler noted that he had only received the Governor and his entourage at his palace in compliance with tradition, noting that “at no time was any directive issued in support of the Governor. The King today reiterated that “Omo eni kise idi bebere kafi ileke si idi omo elomi”, noting that his faith is strong that Adeleke can take Osun to greater height. Senator Adeleke in his remarks at the palace described the royal father as a faithful father of all Ede people , promising that he would not let the royal father down for the confidence deposed in him.   Campaign organisation of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Osun, Senator Ademola Adeleke has warned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), against appointing an All Progressives Congress apologist as the state returning officer of the July 16 poll in the state. In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), governorship candidate in Osun state, Senator Ademola Adeleke has disclosed that the amended electoral law has made it impossible for anybody to steal his votes in the coming July 16 poll in the state. In "News" - Four APC members injured, vehicles, secretariat vandalised Shina Abubakar, Osogbo The All Progressives Congress, APC, has accused members of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, of attacking its party secretariat and injuring four of its members. It also disclosed that the hoodlums vandalised property in the secretariat, including vehicles, motorcycle… In "News"