The Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly and governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori has called on all his supporters to remain calm over the Judgement of the Federal High Court, Abuja in respect of the Wednesday, May 25th Primaries he won. Today, Thursday, July 7th, 2022, a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja passed a judgement against the candidacy of Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori for the 2023 gubernatorial elections in Delta State. In a Press Statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Dennis Otu, the Speaker called on all his supporters and indeed all Deltans to remain calm and steadfast in the face of the Judgement, saying that there was no cause for alarm. According to the Statement; “I wish to appeal to all my supporters, political associates and well wishers to remain calm and law abiding over the Judgement of the Federal Court. There is no need to panic, all is well. We will certainly appeal the Judgement and so let us maintain the peace as all hope is not lost. All is well and it will end in praise to the Glory of God Almighty. “The courts have always been part of our democratic experience ,and our confidence in the judiciary which is the last hope of the common man is unwaivering. So , as we embark on the appeal process, our supporters and indeed Deltans should kindly note and be rest assured that Rt. Hon. Sheriff Francis Orhowedor Oborevwori remains the Gubernatorial Flag Bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State for the 2023 general Elections. The Sherrification Movement is well and alive and, by God’s grace, we shall overcome”, he added. “Once again, I want to appreciate God Almighty for giving us victory at all times, and we will certainly not stop praying for more victories because Delta State is in God’s hands and be reassured that He will take us to the Promised Land at the end of the day. We also wish to thank our teaming supporters for their steadfastness”, the Speaker said.    The Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly and the Governorship Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Francis Oborevwori By Etop Ekanem Former Delta State House of Assembly Aspirant, Ughelli North II, Mr. Oke Umurhohwo, yesterday, congratulated the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon.… In "News" SPEAKER of DELTA State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, Tuesday, received the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP Certificate of Return as gubernatorial candidate of the party in the State.  In "News" The Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly and the Governorship Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Francis Oborevwori By Etop Ekanem The Deputy Leader and Delta State House of Assembly Candidate, Ughelli North constituency II, Hon. Onoriode Agofure, yesterday, congratulated the Speaker of the Delta State… In "News"