Representing ones country at a world tournament is one of the greatest honour an athlete can receive, this was the story of Tobi Amusan who became the first Nigerian athlete to win a World Athletics Championship gold after clinching the women’s 100m hurdles in Oregon on Sunday. Amusan, who had obliterated the world record in an astonishing semifinal where she clocked 12.12sec, got over the line at Hayward Field in 12.06sec. After she was decorated with the gold medal, Amusan was spotted crying Nigeria national anthem was played in honour of the country (Nigeria) she represents). This video really got me. May we experience tears of joy this week.😭 HARDWORK+GRACE=SUCCESS.Thank you for making Nigeria and Nigerians proud.Congratulations Tobi Amusan on your Gold medal and breaking the world record 🎉🎉#WorldAthleticsChampionships #tobiamusan pic.twitter.com/PXNtMRZegs Congrats, Oluwatobiloba Amusan . For making Nigeria proud at the world stage . Nigeria has the talents but bad leadership Tears of Joy pic.twitter.com/DhJFM97LFt This is not just tears of joy. This national anthem is calling to the deep. If everybody will work hard and be sincere and selfless like Amusan in every position they find themselves. The labor of our heroes past will never be in vain! pic.twitter.com/NdB85SEFLi I cried last night.Watching Tobi Amusan shed tears of joy after breaking world record in 100m hurdles made me emotional. For the first time in my life I heard the national anthem in an international athletics championship.THANK YOU TOBI AMUSAN.World Record Holder!!! pic.twitter.com/1M5exoZZNt    By Emmanuel Okogba Tobi Amusan became the first Nigerian ever to win gold at the World Athletics Championships after racing to a stunning world record time of 12.06s. It was the second time Amusan would break the record on the night, improving on her 12.12s in the semi-final. It was… In "Sports" By Emmanuel Okogba Nigeria's Tobi Amusan walked away with a cheque of $100,000 for winning Gold in the final of the women's 100m hurdles event in Eugene, Oregon where she also smashed her own record she set in the semi-final. Amusan finished in a wind-assisted time of 12.06s better than… In "Sports" Sprint hurdler Tobiloba Amusan became the fifth woman to successfully defend the 100m hurdles title after she stormed to victory in a wind-aided 12.57s at the ongoing 22nd African Athletics Championship in Mauritius. Amusan, 25, first won the title four years ago at the 21st edition of the championship and… In "Sports"