An Ado-Ekiti High Court in Ekiti has sentenced one Durodola Ogundele, 65, to life imprisonment for raping his 85-years-old stepmother. The convict was arraigned before Justice Monisola Abodunde on a one count charge of rape. According to the charge, Ogundele, on June 15, 2021 at Ayetoro Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local Government Area of Ekiti State, within the jurisdiction of the court, did rape an eighty-five-year-old woman. The offence is contrary to section 2 of the Ekiti State Gender Based Violence (Prohibition) Law, 2019. In her testimony before the court, the victims’ daughter, Opeyemi Bolaji said, I came to give my mother breakfast, on getting to her, I found her in an unsettling physical condition, after eating and upon further prompting to find out reason for her restlessness. “She told me that the defendant did not allow her to sleep, she said the defendant came to her room around 1:00am, he rubbed a balm all over her body, including her anus and vagina, massaged her body, sucked her breast and forcefully had sex with her. “When I tried to find out from the defendant, he said, my mother must have been dreaming.” The matter was first reported at Ido Ekiti Police Station before it was transferred to State Criminal Investigation Department of the Nigerian Police Force, Ado Ekiti. To prove his case, the prosecutor, Folasade Alli, called five witnesses including the Investigating Police Officer and a Medical Doctor, she tendered victims’ statements, defendants’ statements, and medical report from Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido Ekiti among others as exhibits. The defendant spoke in his own defense through his counsel, M.O. Folorunso, and called no witnesses. In her judgment, Justice Monisola Abodunde ruled that the defendant actually committed the offense. “I am, therefore, not in doubt that prosecution has finally established through circumstantial evidence, that is cogent, compelling and most conclusively, that the defendant intentionally and calculatedly penetrated the vagina and anus of the victim with his penis after rubbing a dark balm on her body and private part. “On the whole, I find that prosecution had discharged an evidential burden placed on them in law by circumstantial evidence, supported by the totality of the combined evidence of the witnesses, corroborated by the extra judicial statements of the victim made at the earliest opportunity. “The defendant is found guilty as charged for Rape contrary to Section 2 of the Ekiti State Gender Based Violence (Prohibition Law) 2019 and he is convicted, and accordingly sentenced to Life Imprisonment in line with Section 2 (2) of Ekiti State Gender- Based Violence (Prohibition Law) 2019,”.   An Ado-Ekiti High Court on Tuesday sentenced a 30-year-old man, Shola Oguntuase to life imprisonment for defiling a 14-year-old JSS 3 student. The convict, was arraigned and tried before Justice Adekunle Adeyeye on one-count charge of defilement. Delivering judgment, Justice Adeyeye, held that the prosecution proved its the against the… In "Metro" An Ado-Ekiti High Court has sentenced one Tajudeen Usman, 50, to life imprisonment for raping a four-year-old minor. Usman was arraigned before Justice Lekan Ogunmoye on a one-count charge of rape.He was said to have defiled the minor on Aug. 21, 2020 at Ikere Ekiti. In a statement to the… In "Metro" By Dayo Johnson Akure A 15-year-old girl, has narrated to the court how a 20-year-old man, Stephanus Stephen, overpowered her and forcefully raped her twice in her father’s living room, in Ondo town, Ondo state. The Victim told a Chief Magistrate court in Ondo town, that the accused person forcefully… In "Metro"