OYO state police command, on Friday, confirmed the arrest of principal of Federal Government Girl’s College, Oyo and a teacher over the allegation of rape of a 14-year-old student Recall that the family of the victim has demanded justice from Federal Government over alleged rape and molestation of their daughter by a teacher of the school, Timothy Alayoteti. Addressing newsmen in Ibadan, the elder sister to the victim, Mercy Gabriel lamented that after several months of the incident, her sister was still suffering from the trauma she went through. According to her, the family was forced to take the victim to a psychologist for check up,  yet she still behaves abnormally. “My sister came home with our other siblings in a very sad mood. We probed her but she didn’t talk. But in about a months later, one of the PTA representatives followed her to me in my shop and the elderly woman narrated the whole story to me.  “She confirmed to me that her teacher, Alayoteti raped her. Our parent went to the school but the principal said it was a mere rumor. At that time, no legal action was taken but we were forced to report the incident to Police in Oyo.” She added. Also confirming it, the Chairman, Parents/Teachers’ Association, PTA, of the school, Mr. Atanda Adesina said the association was in top of the case. A representative of the parent forum of the school, Mrs. Nancy Faniran said timely intervention of the parent forum led to the arrest of the suspect.    The Borno Police Command says it has arrested 80-year-old Saleh Bukar for allegedly defiling an 11-year-old girl. The Police Commissioner, Abdu Umar, said this on Wednesday, while parading Bukar and six other rape suspects at the command’s headquarters in Maiduguri. Umar said that the victim’s elder sister, Fatima Ali, got… In "Metro" The Police in Ogun, said they have arrested three suspected members of the dreaded “Eiye Confraternity”, who forcefully initiated a young girl into their cult after  gang-raping her. The Police Spokesperson, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a statement on Sunday in Ota, Ogun, said the suspects were arrested on June 30… In "Metro" An Iyaganku Chief Magistrates’ Court in Ibadan, on Friday, ordered that a 43-year-old man, Saheed Adedokun, be remanded in a correctional centre for allegedly raping his neighbour. The police charged Adedokun with rape. Chief Magistrate Emmanuel Idowu, who did not take the plea of Adedokun for want in jurisdiction, ordered… In "Metro"