By Emmanuel Okogba Nigeria will feature in the 4x100m women relay event at the upcoming World Athletics Championships holding in Oregon, USA, despite earlier fears that the team will suffer the effect of Blessing Okagbare’s ban. Okagbare who was banned for anti-doping violations was part of the team six days after evading sample collection and competed in the 4x100m relay event at the Nigeria Olympic Trials, with her relay squad qualifying for this year’s World Championships. Although the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) had said that the decision against the former Nigerian and African champion will affect the team’s participation in the event, findings by Vanguard revealed that team was listed in the final entry list for the Championships starting 15th of July. Their inclusion is as a result of the women relay team from France being ‘depleted.’ “We just got this news that France women’s 4x100m relay team is depleted, and may not be able to attend the championships in Oregon. As things stand, our women’s 4x100m relay may be in Oregon in July,” An official of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) had said. Those listed on the team are: Tobi Amusan, Rosemary Chukwuma, Nzubechi Grace Nwokocha, Favour Ofili, Joy Chinenye Udo-Gabriel. The team has a season best time of 43.25s. The Championship was moved to 2022 due to the postponement of the Tokyo Olympics to 2021 that resulted from the effect of Covid-19.    Sprint hurdler Tobiloba Amusan anchored the Nigerian women's 4x100m relay quartet to gold medal in an emphatic fashion. The team made up of Praise Idamadudu, Tima Godbless, Praise Ofoku and Amusan rose from the disappointment of qualifying for the final as one of the two fastest losers to successfully defend… In "Sports" The sports ground of Yaba College of Technology, Yaba, Lagos will come alive Thursday morning when the 2nd Athletics Federation of Nigeria, AFN, All Comers competition begins. The competition is serving as official selection trials for the 22nd African Senior Champioinships in Athletics which holds between 8 and 12 of… In "Sports" Reigning African Games fastest man, Raymond Ekevwo and home girl Tima Godbless failed in their bid to return Nigeria to reckoning in the men and women's 100m finals at the ongoing 22nd African Athletics Championship decided Thursday in Mauritius.           The two athletes ran new personal season's best in all conditions… In "Sports"