Eloswag, one of the “Level 1” housemates of the ongoing television reality show, Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) has emerged the head of house for the first week in the house. This was announced by Biggie, the coordinator of the show upon the completion of the head of house task on Monday. Eloswag was officially crowned and given the head of house mantle to rule the house for the week. Biggie further announced that in compensation for Eloswag, he remained immune for nomination by co-housemates for possible eviction, this also had all his co-housemates in the level 1 house immuned for possible eviction. He also said the head of house would have the order to nominate housemates for possible eviction but he is not allowed to mention to any housemate the names of those nominated. After the first stage of the head of house task, eight housemates were disqualified from the head of house games having circumvented the process of the games. These housemates were: Bella, Christy O, Daniella, Diana, Phyna, Hermes, Grovey and Giddyfia. Also Khalid and Dotun were also disqualified after flouting the rule of the second task as Biggie declared Bella as the first tail of the house. The housemates in level 1 and level 2 houses, for the first time came together at the arena to play the head of house games as they were excited and seen hugging one another. The housemates are bidding for the grand prize of N100 million.    Big Brother Naija reality show are often left with is the hottest female housemates that the show has produced over the years. In "Entertainment" Announcing her return as host of the second season exclusive talk show, BBNaija S7: The Buzz, multimedia personality Toke Makinwa shared the news with Big Brother Naija fans excited for the new season’s start on 23 July. In "News" By David Royal If you would agree with me, you will recall that one of the major highlights of the past Big Brother Naija season six was the never-ending drama between Queen and White Money. The duo had spent more time together after Queen disassociated herself from Boma while in the house. Recall that the… In "Entertainment"