By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Abuja PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari departed Abuja, Wednesday, to participate in the International Development Association (IDA) for Africa Summit in Dakar, Senegal. An institution of the World Bank Group, IDA, is deepening its support to drive a resilient recovery for countries hit by the global crises of climate and COVID -19, growing levels of insecurity and, more recently, by the impact of the war in Ukraine. It hope to do this through its historic $93 billion 20th replenishment cycle (IDA20) which goes into effect between July 1, 2022 and June 30, 2025. At the high level event slated for Thursday, July 7 and hosted by President Macky Sall of the Republic of Senegal, Buhari is expected to join other African leaders in an open Dialogue on Development Challenges and priorities as well as transformational initiatives that will lead to an outcome document, the Dakar Declaration. ​This commitment is expected to chart the way forward for the transformation of the economies of these nations  in partnership with the World Bank/IDA. Read Also: Kuje Prison: Where is Abba Kyari, terrorists asked prisoners during attack Topics slated for discussion include: Financing for Recovery and Economic Transformation in Africa; Agriculture, Livestock and Food Security; Human Capital; Digital and Technological Innovation; and Energy Transition and Climate Change. The President will be accompanied on the trip by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama; Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; as well as Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo. Others on the entourage are the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele; Director-General, National Intelligence Agency (NIA); Ambassador Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar; Director-General, Debt Management Office, Patience Oniha; and the Managing Director of the Bank of Industry, Olukayode Pitan. Buhari is expected back in the country at the end of the Summit on Thursday, July 7. Vanguard News   President Buhari departs for Russia By Johnbosco Agbakwuru The Presidency, Wednesday justified President Muhammadu Buhari's decision to travel to Dakar, Senegal to attend the International Development Association (IDA) for Africa Summit. The President has been under attack over his decision to travel out of the country despite daunting security challenges.… In "News" By Gabriel Olawale In preparation for the 6th edition of the Festival International FIGAS in Bloise France, Afrik’Consult Culture headed by Latsouk N’diaye will be hosting Jemiriye Adeniji and a host of other top African female artistes selected from more than 17 African countries and the rest of the world… In "News" Amusan Reigning African Games 100m and 100m hurdles champions, Raymond Ekevwo and Tobiloba Amusan have arrived in Mauritius for the 22nd African Athletics Championship starting on Wednesday. Both athletes arrived Saturday after competing at the Irena Szewinska Memorial, a World Athletics Continental Gold Tour meet in Poland. Ekevwo will be… In "Sports"