Former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode has shared photos of him and his girlfriend, Nerita, hours after meeting his ex-wife, Precious Chikwendu in his Abuja home. Sharing the photos on his official Instagram page on Monday, FFK locked comment section of the post with caption “Bellisima.” See the post below: Recall that Femi Fani-Kayode had weeks ago shared a video of his sons with their mother, Precious Chikwendu which hinted that the pair may have settled their differences regarding co-parenting.  Ms Chikwendu, who petitioned the United Nations (UN), Amnesty International, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), seeking justice and custody of her children, appeared to have finally gained access to them. The mother-of-four appreciated her estranged partner for allowing her to reunite with her children after a lengthy custody battle. She also said Mr Fani-kayode now “has a change of mind and is working out a process for peaceful co-parenting as wars always have a long-lasting effect on both parties regardless.”   By David Royal Former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode on Sunday shared a video of his sons with their mother, Precious Chikwendu, his estranged wife which hinted that the pair may have settled their differences regarding co-parenting. Sharing the Video on his verified Instagram page, the politician described the moment as… In "Entertainment" Former aviation minister, Femi Fani Kayode couldn’t hold back his joy as his estranged wife, Precious Chikwendu visited his home for the first time in two years. Since their marriage crashed, the estranged couple had been embroiled in a highly publicized divorce over custody of their four sons. Precious had claimed… In "Entertainment" The absence of Justice Obiora Egwuatu of a Federal High Court, Abuja has stalled the hearing in a suit filed by a former senator, Mrs Grace Bent against Precious Chikwendu, ex-wife of former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode. In "Metro"