By Biodun Busari World richest man, Elon Musk’s father, Errol Musk has shared a shocking revelation of a having a “secret” second child with his 35-year-old stepdaughter Jana Bezuidenhout. Errol Musk, an engineer in South Africa, said that the second baby was born in 2019, but added that his conception was unplanned, stating he was living with Ms Bezuidenhout after his birth. Errol disclosed these revelations in an interview with The Sun: “The only thing we are on Earth for is to reproduce.” Errol Musk, 76, and Ms Bezuidenhout also share a five-year-old boy named Elliot Rush, who was born in 2017. He, now, has a total of seven children including Tesla CEO Elon Musk. Jana Bezuidenhout is the daughter of Errol Musk’s second wife Heide Bezuidenhout, whom he married after splitting with Elon Musk’s mother Maye Haldeman Musk in 1979. From this marriage, he has three children – Elon, Kimbal, and Tosca. Errol Musk and Heide Bezuidenhout were married for 18 years. They have two children together. Elon Musk’s Startups Could Be Silver Lining for Bankers Burned by Twitter Deal The Musk family were in “shock” when they found out that Ms Bezuidenhout is pregnant with Errol Musk’s child, the report added. He said, “They still don’t like it…They still feel a bit creepy about it, because she’s their sister. Their half-sister.” The revelations come days after it was reported that Elon Musk fathered twins with a top executive at Neuralink, the artificial intelligence company co-founded by the tech billionaire.    Big changes may be coming to Twitter as billionaire Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk acquires the social media giant in a $44 billion deal that would cap a bid that began in early April to exert official influence over policies designed to combat abuse on the platform, which Musk has cast as anti-free speech.… In "Technology" Elon Musk By Biodun Busari Social media network company, Twitter, has hired an elite law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz to take a legal action against the world’s richest man, Elon Musk. Twitter’s preparation to sue Musk was based on his move to terminate his $44 billion acquisition of… In "Metro" Elon Musk’s child officially changed her name after a court ruled to allow her to drop the SpaceX founder’s last name on Wednesday, June 22. The 18-year-old, who Elon shared with his ex-wife Justine Wilson, had her petition to change her name and gender identity granted with no objection as… In "Entertainment"