Dr. Sunday Adelaja I was initially very hesitant to write this article. The reason being that I have too much on my plate now to deal with considering the ongoing war in Ukraine. I also didn’t want people to think that my position is informed by the fact that I’m a fellow Yoruba man as Bola Ahmed Tinubu. I intentionally wanted to be silent in this election season for this very reason, seeing how divisive tribal sentiments are in our society. But the multiple messages I get every day demanding for my position compelled me to pen down my convictions on why I see Bola Ahmed Tinubu as our next president. These are my 10 reasons why I believe that Bola Ahmed Tinubu will emerge as the next President Of The Federal Republic Of Nigeria. Here is a long retinue of leaders who have been raised by Tinubu. These people gladly call him their god father. We all know the evil of godfatherism in Nigerian politics but Tinubu is one of the only few ones who represents the positive reflection of the word. His own godfatherism is not to hold you down but to raise you up. This is the true meaning of mentorship without which no human endeavor is successful. Many blame him for it, please show me a better example not only in Nigeria, but anywhere on the continent. Guys, Tinubu is the best we have. Just take a look at all his products. His top-ranking men include Professor Yemi Osinbajo, now the Vice President, who was his attorney general and commissioner for justice. Rauf Aregbesola, the immediate past governor of Osun State, was Tinubu’s commissioner for works. Babatunde Fashola, his successor in Lagos State, was his chief of staff. He is presently a federal minister for a second term. Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who served as Tinubu’s first chief of staff, is also a federal minister for a second term. Babatunde Fowler served in Tinubu’s administration as chairman of Lagos State Internal Revenue Service from where he proceeded to become executive chairman of Federal Inland Revenue Service, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos State. Others include: Femi Gbajabiamila, present speaker, House of Reps, Akinwunmi Ambode, former governor of Lagos State, Sen. Solomon Adeola, Tunji Bello, Wale Edun, Bamidele Opeyemi, Gbenga Ashafa, Sen. Oshinowo, Sunday Dare, Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Adeleke Mamora, Minister of State for Health, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman, Nigeria Diaspora Commission, Adejoke Orelope-Adefilere, Kemi Nelson,Dele Alake, etc.Jesus said to judge the tree by it’s fruits, I can see by Tinubu’s fruits that he is the best we have. 9.I remember clearly when Tinubu was the Governor of Lagos State. My most vivid memories of Lagos were the years prior to his election and the early years of his reign. I was already based in Europe, so each time I visited Nigeria the most glaring image of Lagos were the dead bodies littered all across the streets. The bags of refuse wastes and garbage all across the roads. Surprisingly even the iron handed man like Abacha could not do anything to change the rots of the then Lagos. This disgusting image of Lagos started during the regime of Babangida after the capital was moved to Abuja. The state of things got to a despicable height under Abacha just before Tinubu came. For those who didn’t see or remember Lagos of those years, it’ll be difficult to truly know the value of what Tinubu has done to Lagos and Nigeria at large. Unfortunately, i can’t see any other state in the federation that has been so transformed even after some of the presidential aspirants today ruled those states. To me our country Nigeria is also in a similar comatose state right now in terms of security, safety to lives and property, economy etc. We need a Tinubu to come with his transformational capabilities to help turn things around in Nigeria. As things are now only death can stop the emergence of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as Nigerian sixteenth President. If I were in the camp of Tinubu I’ll not rule out an attempt on his life by the forces bent on not letting his presidency become a reality. It’s not enough to pray for him, I will strongly advise that his security be beefed up accordingly. Nigeria cannot afford to have a repeat of the destiny of Moshood Abiola. May God bless The Federal Republic Of Nigeria, and may all her haters live long to witness it. For The Love Of God, Church And NationDr. Sunday AdelajaKyiv, Ukraine2022   By David Royal Yoruba Nollywood superstars have thrown their weight behind the presidential flagbearer of All Progressives Congress, APC  Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The actors who assured Tinubu of their support in a video claimed that the former governor of Lagos State made acting and politics interesting by influencing many actors… In "Entertainment" 2023: Why Nigerians should elect Tinubu their next President- Okelekwe In "Interview" Kwakwanso to Ruben Abati: Tell Tinubu to take care of his health, I love him In "Don't Miss"