Afrobeats stars, Wizkid and Tems successful reign in the global music scene continues, days after their international hit song “Essence” earned them a record-breaking feat- winning the Best Collaboration Award at the 2022 BET Awards. For Starboy, Chris Brown’s Afrobeat-inspired single “Call Me Everyday” ft. Wizkid debuts at number 76 on the Billboard Hot 100 Chart. This is Wizkid’s fourth entry, the most for an African artist. His first entry was for Drake’s hit single “One Dance” which peaked at number one and spent 36 weeks on the chart; Beyonce’s Brown Skin Girl which reached number 76; award-winning hit song “Essence” featuring Tems and Justin Beiber which spent 35 weeks on the chart and peaked at number 9. Afrobeats queen, Tems’ “Wait For You” ft. Future and Drake is the song that occupies the number four spot on the Billboard Hot 100 Chart. The hit song has spent 9 weeks on the chart and peaked at number 1 few weeks ago.Similarly, the hit-song “Call Me Everyday” has also reached a new peak at number four ; moving 14 places upwards on the Billboard Hot R&B Songs Chart- becoming Wizkid’s fifth top 10 hit after “One Dance”, “Essence” “Brown Skin Girl” “Borrowed Love ft Metro Boomin ”. It is not surprising as the hit song amassed over 5 million audio streams in theUS, last week. “Call Me Everyday” also occupies the No.1 spot on US R&B/Soul Apple Music Chart and No.8 spot on the Apple Music US Top Songs Chart, making it the third song credited to Wizkid to hold a position in the top 10 of the Apple Music chart. The deluxe version of Chris Brown’s “Dreezy” album would feature another Afrobeats star- with Davido appearing on a track titled ‘Nobody has to know.’.   By Adeleye Adegboyega “Thank you so much for this, thank you so much. It’s an honour… I mean, this is my first award show that I’m winning something and I just want to use this as an opportunity to speak to every single young, old, whatever, every single woman watching… In "Entertainment" The global village now enjoys the sounds emanating from Nigeria and yearns for more. Nigerian Artistes on their part are leaving no stone unturned in serving it hot for the global audience who have fully accepted afrobeat. The Nigerian music industry continues to blossom with the arrival of new acts… In "Entertainment" Nigerian music executive, Don Jazzy has reacted to the big win of singer, Tems and Wizkid at the recently held BET Awards 2022. The Awards, which was held on Sunday 26th July 2022 at Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles saw the superstars win the best collaboration category for their song… In "Entertainment"