The National Union of Road Transport Workers, (NURTW) chairman, MC Oluomo, has backed popular singer, Portable Omolalomi amid the backlash of ‘one million boys.’ Portable had stated in a viral video that he was the founding father of the cult group ‘one million boys’ which triggered threats. Recall Vanguard published a report, wherein, the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba issued a directive to the Lagos State Police Command to investigate the singer’s link with the cult groups; One Million Boys and Ajah Boys. In a new video shared on his social media, MC Oluomo assured the singer’s safety at the locations where he had been threatened to stay off. Speaking futher on their political ambition, Portable emphasized his support to the reelection of Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and the Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s presidential ambition. “This is Lagos state, I cannot say anyone should not walk. You said he should not step foot in Agege, Lekki, and Oshodi; who are in those places if not us,” MC Oluomo said in part.    By Theodore Opara lagos—The National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, has directed members of the newly inaugurated Lagos State Parks Management Committee, headed by Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly called 'MC Oluomo', to vacate Ladoje, Agege, Lagos State Secretariat of the union. The Chairman of the Caretaker Committee for Lagos State council… In "News" By Evelyn Usman & Bose Adelaja The crisis rocking the National Union of Road Transport Workers, NURTW, in Lagos State, yesterday, deepened as loyalists of the newly appointed Chairman of Lagos State Parks and Garages Management Committee, Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly known as MC Oluomo, and Chairman of Tricycle Owners and… In "Metro" By Miftaudeen Raji Phenomenal Zaazuh singer, Portable has retracted his comment that he was part of the formation of the notorious cultist group, One Million Boys, a crime gang unleashing terror in Lagos. His retraction is coming on the heels of the Force headquarters order to investigate him over his… In "Entertainment"