By Abiodun Busari It was a hilarious moment at the unveiling of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, NNPC, Ltd., as President Muhammadu Buhari pointedly asked the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, to look at him. The event, which took place in Abuja, had some top government officials in attendance. When the President entered, he was welcomed with greetings. However, Lawan seemed distracted. Read Also: 2023: Yobe Concern Stakeholders back Machina’s refusal to step down for Lawan So the President, who was on the podium to give his speech, faced Lawan’s direction and said: “The President of the Senate, look at me now.” There was laugher all round, even as the Senate President rose, bowed to Buhari and then took his seat. Watch the video below: Recall that Lawan was touted as Buhari’s choice of successor. But he lost the All Progressives Congress, APC, presidential primaries that saw the national leader, Ahmed Tinubu, emerge as the party’s flagbearer. To further complicate matters, the candidate of the Yobe North senatorial district, Bashir Sheriff Machina, who was supposedly a placeholder, has refused to step down for the Senate President. Machina’s adamant stance to contest the seat on the party’s ticket has effectively rendered Senator Lawan’s return to the Upper Chamber endangered. Meanwhile, others who graced the unveiling of NNPC Limited apart Lawan, are the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, and the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mele Kyari, among other top stakeholders in the oil and gas sector. The transitioning from NNPC Group to NNPC Limited is in accordance with the Petroleum Industry Act. According to the Act, NNPC Limited will run a commercial and profit-focused organisation under the Company and Allied Matters Act (CAMA). Vanguard News   Senate President, Ahmad Lawan By Levinus Nwabughiogu-Abuja The Chief Whip of the 9th Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, last night, said that the National Working Committee, NWC of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC will present Senator Ahmed Lawan to President Muhammadu Buhari as President candidate of the party for… In "News" A political pressure group, the Intergrity Monitoring Group (IMG), has hailed All Progressives Congress (APC) for announcing the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan as the consensus candidate ahead of tomorrow's National Convention and presidential primary of the party. In "News" A media scholar and activist, Farooq Kperogi has said the All Progressives Congress, APC, would be officially dead if the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan emerges as consensus candidate for the 2023 Presidential election as declared by the ruling party’s national chairman, Sen Abdullahi Adamu. In "News"