*Release my husband, conductor, wife of detained driver begs Police By Mistura Abdulrafiu, Lagos Fresh facts on the arrest of suspects in connection with the murder of a man by some herders over the death of a cow in Mowo, Badagry area of Lagos, last Monday, have emerged. Vanguard reliably gathered that five persons have been arrested, including the driver of the commercial bus that accidentally hit the cow, his conductor, two herders and the owner of the cow that died. Read Also: Police, others watch as herdsmen lynched Lagos bus conductor —Eyewitness But wife of the driver, Favour Bright, who spoke with Vanguard, wondered why her husband and his conductor were being detained as common criminals over the murder they had no hand in. She said: “My husband, Bright Okpara, drove the vehicle that accidentally hit the cow that died. Immediately the incident happened, he and his conductor ran to the Police station to incident the matter “When the Police escorted them back, they saw a dead body on the floor. A woman there told them that herders killed the man, thinking he was the one that killed their cow. “Thereafter, the policemen took them back to the station to write a statement. Since then, they have not come back. Rather, from Morogbo station, they took them to Ikeja and from there to Panti. “Now, the story making the rounds is that the man that was killed was a thief. If care is not taken, my husband and the conductor might be implicated in the murder. “I am, therefore, appealing to Police authorities to release my husband and his conductor because I don’t know why they are kept in custody.“ When contacted, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hudenyi, confirmed that five persons were in Police custody over the murder. He said: “They are the driver of the vehicle, his conductor, two herders and the owner of the cow. “They are assisting us in the investigation because it is a comprehensive and holistic one. Remember, this is a murder case and we need to be very careful with the investigation. “We are not targeting anybody. We need everybody’s input, including bystanders, so that we can recreate the scene and know what exactly happened and who exactly is at fault. “At the end of investigation, anyone found not culpable will be allowed to go.” Vanguard News   Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi By Bose Adelaja, Esther Onyegbula and Efe Onadjae Hell was let loose at Age-Mowo area of Badagry in Lagos, yesterday, after a middle-aged bus conductor was lynched by rampaging cattle herders, over the death of a cow, when his commercial bus, around 6.30am, ran into… In "Metro" Lagos State Police Command, on Monday, said it has arrested two suspects in connection with the killing of a man by some suspected cattle rearers in Age-Mowo area of Badagry. In "News" There was a crisis on Monday morning at Age-Mowo area of Badagry when suspected herdsmen reportedly lynched a 30-year-old commercial bus conductor after their vehicle rammed into their herds killing two cows in the process. In "Metro"