By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja Reports that suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari, was among inmates that escaped from the Kuje Medium Security Custodial Centre, Abuja, on Tuesday night, is false, Vanguard has learned. A top official of the Nigeria Correctional Service, NCoS, who who spoke to Vanguard, said the terrorists that bombed the facility attempted to gain entry into Kyari’s cell, but could not. A group of terrorists, on Tuesday night, attacked the prison in Abuja, the nation’s capital, with bombs and other high calibre arms. Read Also: Recall that besides Kyari, other high personalities in the prison are former governor of Taraba State, Jolly Nyame, and Farouk Lawan, a former member of the House of Representatives. Meanwhile, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Dr. Shuaib Belgore, said over 600 of the inmates fled the prison when it came under attack. He, however, said about 300 had been recaptured, while 300 were still at large. Insider source But a source, who spoke to Vanguard under the condition of anonymity, revealed that over 1,000 inmates escaped. The source said: “Abba Kyari is not missing. The total population of the Kuje Prison inmates is about 1,476, and only 111 of the inmates refused to escape and decided to remain in the prison as 90 percent of the inmates escaped. “Those that decided not to escape included former Governor Jolly Nyame of Taraba state, Farouk lawal, Abba Kyari and four of his officers: Retired AVM and also 107 other inmates whose jail term is less than three months remaining and some who are innocent of what they were accused of. “There are also a few other good Senior Citizens. In total, over 1,300 inmates escaped. Only 111 refused to escape. “Any other press release that tells you there are more than 111 inmates in Kuje Prison today is completely false. “All persons that volunteered to remain behind were counted by 2a.m. today and the total is 111 persons. “Expect the usual false press releases this morning from the security agencies trying to defend themselves and mislead Nigerians and the President. “Don’t believe any of the security agencies that will start misleading the public with false press release that it was ‘attempted jailbreak, terrorist were repelled, prisoners were re-arrested’.” Vanguard News   On Tuesday evening, gunmen suspected to be terrorists launched an attack on the prison in Abuja and freed over 600 inmates. In "Top Stories" …begs for review of his bail request By Ikechukwu Nnochiri The suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police, DCP, Abba Kyari, who is facing drug trafficking charge, Thursday, begged the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja to release him on bail, alleging a threat to his life. Kyari, through his team of… In "Metro" Over 300 inmates have reportedly escaped the Kuje Custodial Centre, Federal Capital Territory following the attack on Tuesday. A prison source who spoke to Vanguard under the condition of anonymity confirmed that over 300 persons inmates escaped during the attack by gunmen. The source claimed the attackers used bombs to… In "Top Stories"