Ukraine’s military has confirmed that the eastern city of Lysychansk has fallen to Russian forces. “After heavy fighting for Lysychansk, the defence forces of Ukraine were forced to withdraw from their occupied positions and lines,” the army general staff said. Earlier Russia’s Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu said his forces had captured Lysychansk and taken full control of Luhansk region. Read Also: Russian missiles kill 19 in Ukraine’s Odesa region Ukraine’s troops were outgunned there. Its general staff said that “in order to preserve the lives of Ukrainian defenders, a decision was made to withdraw”. It said the Russians had multiple advantages in artillery, aircraft, manpower and other forces. Earlier, the head of Russia’s Chechen Republic, Ramzan Kadyrov, published video apparently showing Chechen fighters in the centre of Lysychansk. Further west, the Ukrainian-held city of Slovyansk came under heavy shelling, with at least six people killed. It is in Donetsk region, which with Luhansk forms the industrial Donbas. Just before he launched the war, President Vladimir Putin recognised all of Luhansk and Donetsk as independent of Ukraine. Russian proxy forces began an insurgency there in 2014. Just over a week ago Russian troops captured Severodonetsk, a city reduced to ruins by weeks of Russian bombardment. Vanguard News   A damaged a building in the Darnitsky district of Kyiv A number of explosions shook parts of Kyiv early on Sunday in the first assault on Ukraine's capital for weeks. Russia claims it targeted a site storing tanks supplied by Europe, but Ukraine says rockets hit a train repair plant… In "Ukraine Live Updates" Highlights *All three bridges to the embattled city of Severodonetsk have been destroyed, says regional governor Serhiy Haidai *This makes the evacuation of residents and the transportation of goods impossible, Haidai says *A pro-Russian separatist leader says Ukrainian troops in the eastern city must "surrender or die" because "there is… In "Ukraine Live Updates" ...Separatist leaders would listen to plea on British men given death sentence ...Pope Francis says Ukraine war ‘perhaps somehow either provoked or not prevented’ RUSSIA has barred top United Kingdom-based journalists and defence figures as part of sanctions, in response to UK measures on Russian public figures. The BBC’s Clive… In "Ukraine Live Updates"