You’ve just been invited for an interview for a job opening you applied for and what’s next on your mind would be how to pass a recruitment interview! We’ve got you covered. This article will provide you with all the necessary tips you’ll need to ace your interview. Let’s get right into it. Carefully search for necessary information on the company and possibly, the interviewers. Get familiar with their values, principles, work ethics, etc. This will give you a degree of confidence that’ll let you walk in there for that interview like you know what you’re doing. Find out what questions they’re likely to ask regarding the role you applied for, get the answers and practice answering them, too. Don’t just be excited that you’ve been invited for an interview, read and read again the recruitment description stipulated by the company and figure out how best you would be able to deliver on it if you’re hired. Your interviewers will probably ask you questions like, ‘have you ever been in this situation before as a finance officer, what did you do or how did you go about successfully handling the situation?’ If this is not your first job then you should be ready to properly communicate to them how you did. However, if it is your first job or you’ve never had that specific experience before, you should be able to tell them how you would deal with the situation if you were in it based on your knowledge and skills. Other important tips to note include;    6,000 scale through Soludo's teachers' recruitment exam In "News" By Ibrahim Hassan-Wuyo Governor Nasir El Rufai of Kaduna State has approved the work plan of the Kaduna State Universal Basic Education Board (KADSUBEB), for the recruitment of 10,000 teachers through an online process.  A statement issued by the Executive Chairman of KADSUBEB, Malam Tijjani Abdullahi, stated that the Board  … In "News" By Vincent Ujumadu AWKA — NO fewer than 6,000 out of 31,000 applicants who participated in the online recruitment examination for teachers in Anambra State have scaled through. The state governor, Professor Chukwuma Soludo ordered for employment of both primary and secondary school teachers in the state school system barely… In "Education"