Elon Musk, the chief executive officer of Tesla (TSLA.O) and the world’s richest person, said on Friday he was terminating his $44 billion deal to buy Twitter (TWTR.N) because the social media company had failed to provide information about fake accounts. Shares of Twitter were down 7% in extended trading. Musk had offered $54.20 per share in April. Twitter’s chairman, Bret Taylor, said on the micro-blogging platform that the board planned to pursue legal action to enforce the merger agreement. The Twitter Board is committed to closing the transaction on the price and terms agreed upon with Mr. Musk and plans to pursue legal action to enforce the merger agreement. We are confident we will prevail in the Delaware Court of Chancery. “The Twitter Board is committed to closing the transaction on the price and terms agreed upon with Mr. Musk…,” he wrote. In a filing, Musk’s lawyers said Twitter had failed or refused to respond to multiple requests for information on fake or spam accounts on the platform, which is fundamental to the company’s business performance. “Twitter is in material breach of multiple provisions of that Agreement, appears to have made false and misleading representations upon which Mr. Musk relied when entering into the Merger Agreement,” the filing said. The announcement is another twist in a will-he-won’t-he saga after the world’s richest person clinched a $44 billion deal for Twitter in April but then put the buyout on hold until the social media company proved that spam bots account for less than 5% of its total users. The terms of the deal require Musk to pay a $1 billion break-up fee if he does not complete the transaction. Musk had threatened to halt the deal unless the company showed proof that spam and bot accounts were fewer than 5% of users who see advertising on the social media service. The decision is likely to result in a long protracted legal tussle between the billionaire and the 16-year-old San Francisco-based company. Reuters   Elon Musk is threatening to pull his $44 billion Twitter buyout, accusing the company of hiding information about the number of bot and spam accounts on the platform. In a letter filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday, lawyers for Musk said that Twitter has refused to hand over… In "News" Elon Musk Tesla Inc Chief Executive, Elon Musk has said that plans to buy Twitter have been temporarily put on a hold. Musk made the announcement on Friday via his Twitter handle. Text of his post on Twitter reads, “Twitter deal temporarily on hold pending details supporting calculation that spam/fake… In "News" Elon Musk's transgender daughter has filed a request to change her name in accordance with her new gender identity and because “I no longer live with or wish to be related to my biological father in any way, shape or form.” The petition for both a name change and a… In "Foreign"