Esther Chuma known as CHOMZY. She hails from Imo State. Says that pride and anger are what people hate about her. She is all about vibes. She is generous and the life of the party. Chomzy knows how to twerk and is the life of the party and doesn’t tolerate bullshit. Giddyfia says he’s a team player and enjoys laughing around in serious moments. He’s so excited to be here. GiddyFia hails from Ikot Ekpene, Akwa Ibom. He is a likable personality. His vibes are contagious and loves to speak to large crowds. Diana Edoba is a 33yrs old Project Manager from Edo State: She says she’s very nice and caring. Ebuka: What are you bringing to the house? Diana: Ebuka, look at me. Is that not enough? She is not a lover cos she is lovely. Hermes, born and brought up in Lagos State, Is all about expressions and personality. He loves to fight for everything he believes in and loves. He is a polyamorous relationship, in love with two girls. Ready to mingle on the show Chichi is an Exotic dancer from Edo state. She Is bringing originality. She is coming with diverse energy. She got a lot of package to truly deliver on. Sheggz is a professional footballer and an actor. Got a lot of positive vibes. Quite a cool dude with cool swagg and got the accent. He is here for the ladies.    Nigeria's biggest reality TV show, Big Brother Naija is back with its seventh season. It premiered on Saturday, July 23, 2022. Themed 'Level Up' this season's housemates will be battling and competing for the grand prize of N100M worth of gifts for the next 72 days. These housemates are from… In "Entertainment" By David Royal The final episode of the Big Brother Naija ‘shine ya eyes’ reunion show thrilled viewers to the chin on Friday night as housemate, Emmanuel Umor gave more shocking revelations on his relationship with Liquorose. As we all know, it's no longer a surprise or news that EmmaRose's… In "Entertainment" South African music genre, Amapiano is creeping steadily onto the Nigerian music scene, raising fears it could pose a challenge to the Nigerian home-brewed Afrobeats. But budding singer, Philip Ebuka Emmanuel known musically as Oral P is entertaining no fear. According to the singer who hails from Umuahia Uturu Okigwe,… In "Entertainment"