The 2023 Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has appointed three additional aides into his media team. Abubakar, in a statement signed by his Media Adviser, Mr Paul Ibe, gave the names of the three appointees as Eta Uso, Abdulrashhed Shehu and Demola Olanrewaju, adding that the appointments took immediate effect. Uso, according to Ibe, is appointed as Special Assistant Digital Media, Operations to the former vice president. Uso is an alumnus of the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, and a U.K trained Advanced Computing and Internet systems expert from the University of Wales, Bangor. He is a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society, United Kingdom, and Nigeria. “Abdulrasheed, a professional media specialist with proven track record of excellence – with a decade of experience on the job at various media firms, is appointed Special Assistant, Broadcast Media. “He is a graduate of Mass Communications from ISM Adonai, Benin Republic and Masters in International Relations and Diplomacy, Maryam Abacha American University and Masters in Journalism and Broadcasting at Girne American University, Cyprus,” he added. Ibe also listed Olanrewaju as Special Assistant Digital Media Strategy. Olanrewaju is a communications and public relations strategist with a background in Nigeria’s history and political ideologies, developed during his days as a Students Union Leader at the University of Ado Ekiti. “He is involved in the startups of a number of businesses and brings media industry knowledge, digital media engagement and creative writing skills to shape perceptions, craft narratives and messaging for individuals, businesses and organisation,” Ibe said.    By John Alechenu, Abuja The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, on Monday, paid a courtesy call on the first runner up of the PDP Presidential primary and Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, in his Abuja residence. Atiku who was accompanied by his campaign team and retinue… In "Politics" Atiku Abubakar John Alechenu, Abuja Former Vice President of Nigeria and Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, has urged security agencies to fish out those behind the gruesome killing of innocent worshippers at St. Francis Catholic Church,  Owa-luwa, in Owo , on Sunday.  The PDP presidential candidate is… In "News" The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Atiku Abubakar, in continuation of his consultations towards choosing his running mate, will be meeting ex-PDP governors and ministers, this weekend. In "Politics"