Veteran Nollywood actor, Kanayo O Kanayo, has stated that memes created from his character in movies as a ritualist do not make him uncomfortable. The actor said this in a recent chat with Media personality, Chude Jideonwo, on his #WithChude Talk Show. Chude had asked Kanayo if he feels uncomfortable with the ‘sacrifice’ memes he sees on social media.  The actor, who recently turned 60 said, “No, they don’t make me uncomfortable. What I found out along the line is I have done ‘Lion Heart’, I did ‘Professor Johnbull’; just name it! ‘UpNorth’, and so on and they had nothing to do with going to do juju and all that stuff. Because the actor has to be flexible.“ If they try you in this role as a presenter, the next one they should give you a mechanic. How well have you performed in that mechanic role is what should concern your audience.“ And I think it’s only in Nigeria – not even Africa that this type of casting is an issue. If you look at Sylvester Stallone, he would always be the bad guy. Look at Arnold Schwarzenegger. That’s what it is. They don’t see it as type cast.“ They look at the flexibility of the actor in that role he’s playing and not about you did a hard guy here and there. That’s how Nigerians qualify you, and that’s not good for those of us in the profession.“ So for their Oscars and so on, they look at you from the role you played and not whether it’s the same thing as the other role you played.”    Kanayo .O. Kanayo paints Muson white as he rounds off 60th birthday celebration In "Entertainment" By Benjamin Njoku Nollywood actor-turned-lawyer, Kanayo O Kanayo recently relived memories of his childhood, recalling how he almost committed suicide while living with his elder brother in Enugu. The actor made this startling revelation in an interview Vanguard. He said then he used to hawk Agidi on the streets of… In "Entertainment" By Damilola Ogunsakin Popular actor and lawyer, Kanayo O. Kanayo, has stated that a Nigerian President of Igbo extraction will stop other tribes and ethnic zones’ agitations. Speaking in an exclusive interview with Vanguard entertainment journalist, Benjamin Njoku, he said the easiest way for Nigeria to recover in 2023 is… In "News"