Kevin Durant, a 12-time All-Star, has asked the Nets to trade him, according to a person familiar with the request who was not authorized to discuss it publicly. Rich Kleiman, Durant’s business manager, told ESPN that the Nets had given him permission to find a trade partner. Durant’s request came three days after Kyrie Irving opted into the final year of his four-year contract with the Nets. Durant and Irving signed with the Nets in 2019 on four-year deals, but last year Durant signed an extension that goes through the 2025-26 season. Irving can be traded in the final year of his contract. Read Also: FG reverses withdrawal of Nigeria from all basketball competitions Durant, 33, is widely thought of as one of the best scoring forwards in N.B.A. history. He won the league’s Most Valuable Player Award in 2014, which was one of the four seasons in which he led the N.B.A. in scoring. During this past season, Durant played in 55 games and averaged 29.9 points, 7.4 rebounds and 6.4 assists per game. He and Irving came to Brooklyn hoping to win a championship together. “We want to end our careers together,” Irving told reporters at their introductory news conference in 2019. “We want to do this as a team, and what better place to do it than Brooklyn?” Durant was the second overall pick in the 2007 N.B.A. draft, selected by the Seattle SuperSonics, who then became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Durant spent nine seasons with the franchise before signing with Golden State in 2016. There, he helped Golden State win back-to-back championships in 2017 and 2018, and was named the M.V.P. of both those finals. Durant tore his Achilles’ tendon during the 2019 finals, which Golden State lost to the Toronto Raptors. (nytimes.com) Vanguard News   The United States have several Olympic gold medal winners among their 44 finalists for the team that will compete at this summer's Tokyo Games. Among them is LeBron James, who reached the top of the podium at the 2008 and 2012 Olympics, and former FIBA Basketball World Cup MVPs Kevin… In "Sports" NBA superstar Kevin Durant, who has not played since he tore his Achilles tendon a year ago, said he would not make his debut with the Brooklyn Nets when the season resumes late July in Orlando. "My season is over. I don't plan on playing at all," in the 2019-2020… In "Sports" The Brooklyn Nets, battling to keep an NBA playoff spot, split with coach Kenny Atkinson on Saturday and said assistant Jacque Vaughn would guide the club for the remainder of the season. Atkinson went 118-190 in nearly four seasons coaching the Nets, whose only playoff appearance under him came last… In "Sports"