By Adeleye Adegboyega Afrobeats legendary duo, Peter & Paul Okoye popularly known as P-Square has released the first single since the twin brothers unceremoniously split in 2017. The single is titled “Jaiye(Ihe Geme)” and it is already making waves online. The music duo came back with a bang as fans were excited to see the brothers deliver the amazing tune melodiously. The song is an Amapiano party vibe and a club banger which was produced by the music duo themselves. P-square infuses their trademark pop and dance fusion sensibilities as well as the buzzing sound of Amapiano into creating an upbeat & catchy vibe. A danceable and sing-along tune which is a reminiscence of the fantastic delivery offered to fans throughout their blissful career. A perfect vibe for the summer and a perfect gift for music lovers. The song starts with a call to “Jaiye (Ihe Geme)”, a Yoruba and Igbo words which respectively means ‘celebrate’ . “Jaiye ori mi (Yeah iyahhh!)Jaiye, Jaiye ori miIhe geme, Ihe geme eeh” The chorus is melodious as fans can vibe to it by clapping and dancing. It is a feel-good vibe that can make a moody person lively and a good relief from stress “So put your hands up in the air (Jaiye lo, Jaiye, Jaiye ori mi)Make we Jaiye (Jaiye lo, Jaiye, Jaiye ori mi)” The tune is a call to celebrate, dance, and enjoy yourself. “Shake your body” means to dance while “Soji” means to be aware so as to get into the groove. “Omo, na enjoymentWe want shake bodyTell dem e still dey bodyP-Square go make you soji” P-square also released a melodic and love vibe titled “Find somebody”; Another beautiful reminisce of lovely tunes like “Beautiful Onyinye” and “No One be like you”. Speaking about their new single, P-Square says, “The decision to release two singles at the same time came from the need to make it up to our fans after our sojourn as individual artists, and to show our creative growth. ‘Jaiye (Ihe Geme)’ is a catchy upbeat track we believe is the perfect vibe for the summer, while ‘Find Somebody’ delivers that unmistakable P-Square vibe with a twist. We can’t wait to share more from our album in the coming months”. The video of “Jaiye” shows both singers dancing in a frenzy & celebratory atmosphere to the feel good vibe, which literally means “Jaiye”. Surely, P-square is back again, Back with a bang!!!     By Adeleye Adegboyega Music fans are excited and elated as Afrobeats legendary duo, Peter & Paul Okoye popularly known as P-Square released the teaser for their much anticipated new single titled "Jaiye". The song is an Amapiano party vibe and it is set to drop on July 22nd 2022. The… In "Entertainment" By Adeleye Adegboyega Nigerian Afrobeats superstar singer, Tiwa Savage has shared a snippet of a yet-to-be-released tune on social media. The post was shared with the caption We must #Jaiyeforeign as Tiwa is seen vibing and dancing to the amazing tune which features street-hop/Marlian sensational superstar singer, Zinoleesky. https://twitter.com/TiwaSavage/status/1546486128303284228?s=20&t=OSQT1KQx5z353qK7IHSAtg Fans… In "Entertainment" By Juliet Ebirim It was a night of music, fun and excitement when iconic Nigerian music duo, Peter & Paul Okoye, popularly known as P-Square, gave a thrilling performance at their recently held Trace Live concert. The concert which held at the Terra Kulture Arena, Victoria Island, Lagos on Thursday,… In "Entertainment"