Atachegbe Rita Samuel, sister of one of the deceased security operatives, Captain Samuel Attah has expressed grief over the ugly outcome of the attack on a unit of the Brigade of Guards in Abuja. Recall Vanguard reported that Army Captain Samuel Attah was killed when terrorists attacked troops of the 7 Guards Battalion of the Nigerian Army Presidential Guards Brigade in Bwari area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). In a tweet, the heartbroken sister of Captain Samuel Attah said: “My pride, my hero, my beloved brother…Hmmm I lack words to express this dream. I can’t believe I am typing this. Rest in a very perfect peace. Captain Attah Samuel. God! God! God! Jesus help my family, my age parents. Ah! Only son! Who shall defend us.” Captain Samuel Attah and his colleagues were ambushed on Sunday July 24 while Sources told Vanguard that while those who sustained injuries during the ambush were recieving medical attention at a military medical facility in Abuja, efforts are currently on to locate and rescue the missing officer. A source however said there maybe likelihood that some soldiers who escaped the ambush with bullet wounds may have succumbed to paying the supreme price but until they are found, they will still be considered as MIA. The Spokesman of Guards Brigade, Captain Godfrey Anebi Abakpa had confirmed on Monday that terrorists ambushed troops attached to the Presidential Guards Brigade, as they conducting patrols in Bwari area as a result of intelligence that the Nigeria Law School in Bwari may be attacked.   Following Sunday's terrorists ambush of a Joint Patrol team made up of troops of 7 guards Battalion and 176 Battaion of Guards Brigade during a patrol along the Bwari-Kubwa road in which an Army Captain was killed, military sources have confirmed that a Lieutenant and five soldiers are still missing… In "News" Troops of Guards Brigade, Nigerian Army on Monday repelled a terrorists Ambush in Abuja while on patrol around the Bwari -Kubwa road. In "News" Former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Obong Victor Attah says among all the aspirants who consulted to take over from Governor Udom Emmanuel, major stakeholders preferred Pastor Umo Eno because of his humility, capacity to deliver and experience in the private sector. In "News"