Nigeria’s leading airline, Air Peace, has revealed plans to extend flight operations to Guangzhou, China and Mumbai, India, with scheduled flight operations to this month. The Spokesperson of Air Peace, Mr Stanley Olisa, made the disclosure in a statement on Tuesday in Lagos. Olisa said that Israel flight operations was also underway. He said these new destinations were further testimony to the airline’s determination to connect Nigerians seamlessly to other parts of the world and deepen socio-economic ties between Nigeria and both countries. Olisa said that the airline would be launching its initial one weekly flight to China on July 13, 2022, and two weekly flights to India later this month. He added that the company would increase the frequencies when operations garner momentum. Olisa said that Air Peace’s entry into both countries would strengthen bilateral ties between Nigeria and both countries “Guangzhou and Mumbai are not new terrains for Air Peace as we have operated a number of special/evacuation flights into both cities in the past. “So, we are very familiar with the airspace and plans to launch Tel Aviv, Israel, are in top gear. This is also not a new space for us as you know, we have operated flights to and from the country. “Air Peace is unflinchingly committed to reducing the air travel burden of Africans, and we will continue to grow our route network as well as modernise our fleet strategically. “Air Peace has accomplished so much in just seven years of operation, as we now have a network of 20 domestic routes. “Others are seven regional routes and two international destinations, including Dubai and Johannesburg, which we launched in 2019 and 2020 respectively,” he said. Olisa reiterated its resolve to continue providing peaceful and strategic network connections, in line with its no-city-left-behind mantra, which the airline was aggressively implementing. The official hinted that the airline also had in the works two other African destinations – Malabo in Equatorial Guinea and Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that in March 2022, Air Peace launched its Niamey route, and a few months before then, it flagged off Douala operations from Lagos and PH. The airline parades an optimal, mixed, modern fleet of over 30 aircrafts, including five brand new Embraer 195-E2s, and has the largest fleet in West and Central Africa.   To the Air Peace pilot who flew Boeing triple 7 to Nigeria! In "News" By Lawani Mikairu You don’t treat your elderly citizens bad and expect the younger ones to put in their best into the system — Sirika THE above statement made by Senator Hadi Sirika, the  Minister of Aviation, gives an insight into the humane and nationalistic spirit of the man, Hadi… In "News" AON strike: Dana Air not suspending flights In "News"