The Social Democratic Party, SDP, presidential candidate, Prince Adewole Adebayo, has expressed his joy and happiness to President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda and the Omukama of Bunyoro-Kitama Kingdom, His Majesty Solomon Iguru for keeping their culture.  More importantly, Adebayo noted, they made it an annual celebration even in far away Washington DC, USA. Read Also: A prosperous Nigeria can take burden off US — Adebayo, SDP presidential candidate  Adebayo, a Prince of the Osimawe Kingdom in Ondo State, was special guest of the celebration. He said he was happy that despite technology and even far way from their country, the Omukama of Bunyoro-Kitama is still being celebrated, which according to him, is an indication of  the seriousness the people of Uganda attached to their culture. His words: “I want every African to emulate the Omukama of Bunyoro-Kitama culture, because before the white men came, there was a country an there was a culture. “I am happy that we still remember the heritage of our ancestors. I am happy that here in Washington DC,  you can still celebrate this culture and I believe that other African countries and cultures would have learnt one or two from this celebration. “I think there is need for every African culture to be celebrated wherever Africans may find themselves. “The culture is who we are and it should be celebrated every now and then,” he stated.   From right: Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, Prince Adewole Adebayo, members of the commission for International Religious Freedom and Salewa Ladipo, shortly after the SDP presidential candidate session with the group. The United States of America, USA, Commission for International Religious Freedom has invited presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party, SDP,… In "News" Prince Adewole Adebayo, SDP presidential candidate; Gurudev Sri Sri Ravi Shankar and Dr. Ralph Bello-Fadile Nigeria's Social Democratic Party, SDP, presidential candidate Prince Adewole Adebayo visited the Art of Living Centre in Washington DC, where he met with his good friend, the world acclaimed Gurudev Sri Sri Ravi Shankar. The… In "News" US Agency invites SDP Presidential candidate, Adebayo for dialogue on religious freedom In "News"