By Emmanuel Okogba Nigeria may host Africa’s continental football showpiece twenty-five years after it hosted that which it lost to Cameroon in the final. Nigeria and Ghana co-hosted the African Cup of Nations in year 2000 where two stadia – one in Lagos and another in Kano, were used in Nigeria. Ghana also presented two. President of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick said the Confederation of African Football (CAF) is likely to withdraw the hosting right of the 2025 AFCON from the West African country. With Guinea risking being stripped of the hosting right for the 2025 edition, Pinnick revealed that he has gotten the backing of the Minister of Sports to submit a co-hosting bid with Benin Republic. “We are putting a bid together for a co-hosting of the tournament with the Benin Republic,” Pinnick told Completesports. “The Minister of Sports has given his endorsement on the bidding. “It is high time Nigeria hosted an international tournament because there are many advantages attached to hosting of such competitions. “There are many countries bidding for the competition; we are confident of getting the nod from Caf. “We are working with the ministry of sports to ensure that Nigeria gets the hosting right.” Nigeria has hosted the continent on only two occasions – 1980 and 2000.   Governor Udom Emmanuel on Friday, played host to leaders of football governing bodies across African nations and other envoys, led by the Confederation of African Football, CAF, President, Mr. Patrice Motsepe. During the visit to Government House, which preceded the final match of the CAF Confederation Cup finals at the… In "News" Organizers, stakeholders, ardent football enthusiasts and the media are guaranteed a feast when Cup holders Nigeria and much-improved host nation Morocco go to battle in the second semi final match of the 12th Women Africa Cup of Nations competition in Rabat on Monday night. The stage is set for what… In "Sports" Amaju Pinnick, President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), on Thursday lauded Super Falcons players for their qualification for the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup. The Falcons defeated Indomitable Lionesses of Cameroon 1-0 on Thursday in the quarter-finals of the ongoing Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (WAFCON) in Morocco. The win… In "Sports"