Grammy-award winning singer and African giant, Burna Boy has wished he spoke to his grandfather, and late Nigerian musician, Olanrewaju Fasasi, popularly known as Sound Sultan more often before their demise. Burna Boy said this on the last track of his new album ‘Love, Damini’. Burna Boy had disclosed that the album project would highlight his personal struggles. “Love, Damini is a personal body of work. It’s about the ups and downs, thegrowth, the L’s and W’s. “I’m excited to share this journey and roll [it] out with you all,” he had Listening to the album, it is no doubt that Burna Boy put out a staggeringly impressive body of work in his wildly anticipated sixth studio project. In the last track of the album, in which he featured the iconic and legendary south African powerhouse, Ladysmith Black Mambazo, the singer admitted that he needs to show more love to people while they are alive. Excerpts from the song read: “I should have talked to grandaddy before it’s too late. “I should have talked to Sound Sultan more before he died. I should show people more love while they are still alive. “I should always know the way my people feel inside. “I’m trying to be a better man, I’ve been trying, I got it all but I still got my anger.” Recall that Sound Sultan died of throat cancer on Sunday, July 11, 2021 in the US and he was buried there according to Islamic rites. Sound Sultan became a household name among Nigerians, with his popular hit song ‘jagbajantis’ released in 2000.   By Adeleye Adegboyega Superstar singer, Burna Boy has released the cover of his much-anticipated 6th studio album- Love, Damini. The birthday-themed cover shows Burna wearing a black suit on a white shirt; with several candles laced around two beautiful-looking cakes. The album is set to be released on Friday, July… In "Entertainment" Damini Ogulu, the Grammy-winning singer popularly known as Burna Boy, turned 31 years old on Saturday, and it has been cakes, balloons and his fans celebrating him on and off the state. He was on stage at the Sumol Summer Fest in Portugal, holding white balloons. Another video shows him… In "Entertainment" By Adeleye Adegboyega British supermodel, Naomi Campbell hosted Nigerian music superstars, Wizkid, Burna Boy, Tems as well as her other celebrity friends for a private party in UK. The supermodel organized the get-together to celebrate her first time walking for fashion brand, Balenciaga. Wizkid, Burna Boy and Tems had a… In "News"