Grace Amarachi Jimoh, the mother of actor, Yomi Fabiyi’s son has countered the curses that comedian, Princess, laid on the actor and his offsprings on Thursday. Following the sentencing of actor Baba Ijesha for sexual assault of a minor, Princess, the foster mother of the victim had gone live on her Instagram page to rain curses on some persons who championed the course of the convict. She mentioned Yomi Fabiyi specifically and rained unprintable curses on him and his children. Jimoh, who is Fabiyi’s estranged lover and mother of his son, countered the curses. In one post, she said, “Heavenly Father, may my child AKOREDE IMOLEAYO FABIYI not fear, for you are with him. As I place my child in your mighty loving hands, give him peace, AKOREDE, you will excel in life, you are protected in God’s hand. No curse, no evil will befall you. Amen.” In another post, she lashed out at the comedian, saying, “If you had gone through labour pain,you would know cursing an innocent children is a no. There are some children that naturally have ‘back to sender’ spirit. Curse whosoever thatoffended you. This children are innocent!!! God made you win. He do no evil.”    Actor Yomi Fabiyi has mulled appeal of the sentencing of the embattled Nollywood actor, Olanrewaju James, alias Baba Ijesha by an Ikeja Special Offences Court for sexually assaulting a 14-year-old minor. In "News" By David Royal Nigerians have reacted to comments made by popular Nollywood actor, Yomi Fabiyi accusing actress, Tonto Dikeh of promoting violence by engaging in a fight with controversial Journalist, Kemi Olunloyo. You would recall that Tonto and Kemi have been on each other after an Instagram live session that… In "Entertainment" Nollywood actress, Kemi Afolabi has begun treatment for her illness, Lupus, at a United States hospital. The actress had earlier in the year disclosed that she was battling the autoimmune disease. Many celebrities like Mercy Aigbe, Toyin Abraham, Mide Martins and her husband Afeez Owo, Tayo Odueke, Bisola Badmus, Yomi… In "Entertainment"