By Ibrahim Hassan-Wuyo, Kaduna Thirty residents of Keke community near the Millennium City, Kaduna, were reportedly kidnapped by terrorists in a attack carried out Monday night. A resident, Malam Haliru Lere, told journalists, yesterday, that the hoodlums stormed the community around 8 30pm when many residents were returning home from their various places of work. He said: “They came during the heavy rain last night. They went away with many people including women and children. Read Also: Boko Haram, bandits are different from IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu— El-Rufai “This is the 4th time they were attacking our community. We still have some members of our community in their captivity from previous attacks. “They demanded N30 million, about N20 million was given to them but they refused to release the earlier held captives, demanding 10 motorcycles. “They have killed three among the earlier captives and dumped their bodies. Now, they have picked more of our community members. They are yet to make any demand. “They operated for about two hours, going from house to house, picking people. A friend of mine, who earlier ran and hid, heard them telling his family members that the family would have been spared if he had not run away. “Hearing that and knowing that he has a pregnant wife, he surfaced and presented himself to the terrorists, who whisked all of them away.” “The soldiers tried this time as they came within 30 minutes. Unfortunately, they first moved to Keke A whereas the terrorists were at the Keke B part of the community.” Vanguard News   The Presidency, yesterday, said the country’s security and defence forces were battle ready to deal with the terrorists wherever they were. In "Metro" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru & Ibrahim Hassan ABUJA—The Presidency, yesterday, said the country’s security and defence forces were battle ready to deal with the terrorists wherever they were. This came as terrorists, suspected to be members of Boko Haram, threatened to abduct President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna… In "Metro" As victims appeal to UK, US, France,UN, others to intervene  By Ibrahim Hassan-Wuyo  A fresh video at the weekend, released by terrorists who kidnapped passengers aboard the ill-fated Abuja -Kaduna train; has elicited sympathy from the public, when the remaining victims were shown crying and wailing due to severe flogging… In "Metro"