The Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, said the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has so far remitted about N29 billion directly to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF). Adamu made the disclosure at a policy meeting on admissions into tertiary institutions in Abuja on Thursday. He said the board had also granted over N1 billion to tertiary institutions and expended more than N2 billion on capital projects.   Read Also: Buhari gives Adamu 2-week ultimatum to resolve varsity unions strike Adamu added that the board had  reserved N6 billion for its  future expansion and as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). He said that the  board also  provided social services such as funding the freighting and delivery of donated critical hospital equipment to 12 teaching hospitals at the cost of $257,000 and ₦47 million. According to him, the board has continued to serve as a model for public agencies in vision, devotion, transparency and efficiency, yielding enormous goodwill to the government and people of Nigeria. He pleaded with the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and other trade unions in the tertiary education sub-sector to call off the ongoing  strike  and embrace genuine dialogue as solution. “I urge the leadership of tertiary institutions to partner with the Federal Government in its frantic efforts at restoring industrial harmony into tertiary institutions in Nigeria. “It is clear that stable academic calendar is required for quality education and development in Nigeria. “I also seize this opportunity to appeal to the trade unions in the tertiary education sub-sector to, in the interest of the future of Nigeria, call off the  strike and embrace genuine dialogue as solution to our problems,” he said. The minister further charged institutions to comply with the policy directives as decided at the meeting, saying that any infringement of any of the policy guidelines would be meted with appropriate sanctions.   The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB, and heads of tertiary education institutions in the country have pegged the minimum cut-off mark for admissions in the 2022/2023 academic session In "Education" By Joseph Erunke ABUJA - THE Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB, and heads of tertiary education institutions in the country have pegged the minimum cut-off mark for admissions in the 2022/2023 academic session. The minimum cut-off mark for universities is 140 while that of polytechnics and colleges of education,… In "Don't Miss" JAMB By Joseph Erunke THE Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB, said yesterday its assessment has shown that more than 90 per cent of A’ Level results presented by candidates to gain admission into universities were fake. The examination body said its focus on developments around the Interim Joint Matriculation… In "Education"