Superstar singer, Burna Boy released his 6th studio album to the delight of fans all over the world. He hosted a listening party in US where he performed songs off the 19- track album. The event featured music stars such as Cardi B’s baby daddy/ rapper, Offset, Jamaican rapper/deejay, Popcaan, Fast-rising Nigerian singer, Ayra Starr and other top American music acts as they all came to support the Afrobeats sensational artiste. It was a special day for Offset as his long awaited wish of meeting Burna Boy finally came to pass. He stirred reactions on social media weeks ago after leaving a request in Burna Boy’s Instagram comment section; calling on Burna to check his DM. It surprised a lot of fans that Offset tried to get Burna’s attention and probably yearning for a collaboration. This shows why the superstar singer is a hot-cake and admired greatly by other superstars. The African Giant serenaded fans on the night as Offset, Popcaan and otner acts sang along with Burna Boy as he performed the international hit single, Last Last. Watch the video below:    By Adeleye Adegboyega Superstar singer, Burna Boy has released the cover of his much-anticipated 6th studio album- Love, Damini. The birthday-themed cover shows Burna wearing a black suit on a white shirt; with several candles laced around two beautiful-looking cakes. The album is set to be released on Friday, July… In "Entertainment" The real reason Nigerian superstar singer, Burna Boy accosted a lady, identified as Neme Briella at Cubana Nightclub in Lagos penultimate week which led to a multiple shooting may have been uncovered by some eagle-eyed observers who aver that the lady bears uncanny resemblance to Burna Boy’s ex girlfriend, British… In "Entertainment" A team member of Omah Lay has dismissed reports of a dispute between the singer and Burna Boy, stating that there was never a misunderstanding between both artistes and that Omah’s post on his stories was just for laughs. Omah Lay had on Wednesday while in a question and answer… In "Entertainment"