What to know about assassinated ex-Japanese leader, Shinzo Abe By Miftaudeen Raji A former Japan’s Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe has been shot dead. Abe died aged 67. The news came as a huge shock to the world. Abe, according to reports, had been shot at around 11:30 local time in the morning in the city of Nara. According to a doctor’s report at a press conference, Abe bled to death after his team tried for hours to save his life. These are some of the keynotes to know about the slain former Japanese leader: Meanwhile, global leaders are reacting with shock; PM Boris Johnson says the UK stands with the Japanese people at a “sad and dark time.” Indian Prime Minister, Narendra Modi said Abe “dedicated his life to make Japan and the world a better place.” Former Prime Minister of Australia Tony Abbott, who worked closely with Abe, in a tweet, described the ex-prime minister as Japan’s “most significant post-war leader.” Abe’s assassination came on the heels of his Japan’s parliamentary election coming up this Sunday, which had prompted the influential ex-leader to be on the streets giving a speech and campaigning for one of the candidates in the race.    Japan ex-Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe (AP) Abe on the floor. Moment security operatives tackled the shooter. ‘Unresponsive’ Abe being airlifted. Japan’s former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was in heart failure after apparently being shot during a campaign speech Friday in western Japan, NHK public television said Friday. The broadcaster aired… In "Foreign" Concerns are mounting over Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s health after the country’s leader returned to a Tokyo hospital Monday for the second time in a week. Abe, 65, on Monday morning visited Keio University Hospital in Tokyo, where he spent three hours with doctors. Last Monday, the prime minister… In "News" By Davies Iheamnachor PORT HARCOURT—A yet to be identified member of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Rivers State, was yesterday reportedly shot during a protest to the state party secretariat in Port Harcourt. This was following a protest by members of the party loyal to Sen. Magnus Abe over… In "Politics"