A global streaming platform, Spotify, says Nigerian singer and songwriter, Simi Ogunleye, popularly known as “Simi”, has been selected as Spotify EQUAL Africa music programme ambassador for July. Phiona Okumu, Spotify’s head of music for sub-Saharan Africa, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday in Lagos. This announcement followed the release of her latest album, “TBH (To Be Honest)”, which came out in June. Okumu said that Simi joined other Nigerian artistes like Tiwa Savage, Ayra Starr, Asa, and FAVE to be part of EQUAL Africa, which aims to spotlight and amplify the voices of talented African female artists making waves in the music scene. She said Simi had also become the second African artiste after Tiwa Savage, to be named as an EQUAL global and EQUAL Africa artiste. “Spotify welcomes Simi to the EQUAL programme which aims to foster gender equality and provide a platform to celebrate inﬂuential female artistes. “She joins a list of talented African women who are driving the culture and breaking through barriers in the music industry. “We are proud to welcome Simi to the EQUAL programme, and we are so excited to see where her talent continues to take her from strength to strength,” she said. Okumu said that the Nigerian musician, sound engineer and actress, started her musical journey as a chorister in church. She said Simi started her musical career as a gospel singer, who released her debut studio album ‘Ogaju’ in 2008 before switching genres to Afro-pop. “She came onto the public’s radar in 2014 after the release of the single, “TIFF”, which was nominated for Best Alternative Song at The Headies in 2015. “Her 2016 single, “Jamb Question”, was a massive hit, topping music charts for weeks. In 2020, Simi garnered even more buzz in the industry after she released her famous song, ‘Duduke’, which celebrated the birth of her daughter. “Duduke was one of the most played songs of the year in Nigeria, a further testament to Simi’s musical prowess,” she said. Reacting, Simi said, “Striving and thriving as a woman in a male-dominated industry has taken years of practice to master. “You go from being scared of it, to being intimidated by it, to being brave enough for it and then finally, to conquering it. “I have almost always had to do way more than my male peers to prove myself but because of my love for music, I have been relentless and proud to do this work. “I certainly hope, with all my heart, that the women who continue to come after me find it easier to shine in the way they deserve.” The EQUAL programme spans seven categories, which include the EQUAL artistes of the month and the EQUAL local playlists. The latest artiste to join the EQUAL Africa and Global Music Programs, Simi, will be featured on the EQUAL Africa and the EQUAL Global playlists.   Nigerian singer Tems has applauded her counterparts Tiwa Savage, Yemi Alade, and other notable female musicians in the Afrobeats industry. In "Entertainment" By Joy Mazoje The long-anticipated list of nominees for Headies Award 2022 was publicized on Tuesday, 24 May, 2022. However, Wizkid's “Essence” and Ayra Starr’s “Bloody Samaritan” got multiple nominations. The Headies made the announcement of the nominees on their Instagram page ahead of the award ceremony set to hold… In "Entertainment" Spotify, an online streaming platform, has rated Nigeria as the second country with the most musical streams after Pakistan. Spotify’s Head of Music for Sub-Saharan Africa, Phiona Okumu, disclosed this during a media chat in Lagos on Thursday. Okumu, who said that the study was carried out by Spotify, added… In "Entertainment"