Nigerian singer and Grammy Award winner, Burna Boy, has clarified that his style of music is called Afrofusion, and not Afrobeats as assumed by fans. Burna Boy who spoke about his genre of music during the latest episode of The Million Dollar Worth of Game podcast said because the music genre comes from Africa, doesn’t automatically make it Afrobeats. Speaking on why he calls it Afrofusion, Burna stated that he decided to call his style of music Afrofusion because it’s a fusion of everything and the Afro-Africaness is the thing that covers it. He also said Africa has so many genres of music, adding that generalising it all as Afrobeats is a “disservice to other artists” in other genres. “For me it’s like the same way you’re going to say Nas is an R&B singer because he’s from America or Whitney Houston was a rapper because rap is the most popping thing now,” he said. “I can’t accept that because I’m not a rapper. So now in Africa when you talk about music, the first thing they say is Afrobeats. Afrobeats is a legend called Fela Kuti. “Years went by and Nigerian musicians started dropping music that was becoming something. So they needed to call it something to be able to identify with it. “Somehow they just said Afrobeats and added an s. I don’t know how I don’t know what sense that made but that’s what happened. Somewhere along the line, all the music that comes from Africa just writes Afrobeats. “We have Highlife, Juju music, Fuji music, South African Kwaeto music, Amapiano, Afropop, we have all types of genres in Africa. To be really sincere, for you to just call everything Afrobeats is kind of a disservice to the artists. “For me, when I started the Afrofusion thing, it was like my music was not the same with anything that was out. It was like everybody else kind of sounded the same. “It was one kind of move and for me, there was nothing I could identify myself with. So I just decided that I’ll call it Afrofusion because it’s a fusion of everything. The Afro-Africaness is the thing that covers it.”   From Lagos to London to Los Angeles, a new style is taking dance clubs and music charts by storm. Chances are, you’re already familiar with the sound, even if you haven’t heard the name. Afrobeats, a music genre from Nigeria, is shaking up the global music industry. Growing since the… In "Sponsored" The global village now enjoys the sounds emanating from Nigeria and yearns for more. Nigerian Artistes on their part are leaving no stone unturned in serving it hot for the global audience who have fully accepted afrobeat. The Nigerian music industry continues to blossom with the arrival of new acts… In "Entertainment" By Adeleye Adegboyega Burna Boy unveils pre-released single, Pheelz drops Finesse East Africa remix; Timaya, Victony, Gyakie and other new music released this week. Grammy Award winning Afrobeats star- Burna Boy gave his fans a wonderful teaser of what to expect when his much anticipated 6th studio album- Love, Damini… In "Entertainment"