Doctors who performed the surgical operation on Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, to treat the recurrent pain caused by a fracture in his leg said they have concluded the procedure and that it was successful. The Medical Director, Duchess International Hospital, Ikeja, Dr Adedoyin Dosunmu-Ogunbi said that the Vice President “is alert and well.” Dosunmu-Ogunbi’s statement was released last night by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Mr. Laolu Akande Duchess Hospital in a release titled, “Successful Medical Treatment of the Vice President,” said Osinbajo had a surgical operation performed by a team of specialist doctors. The statement read: “The Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, GCON, was admitted to the Duchess International Hospital GRA, Ikeja, Lagos, today on account of a fracture of his right femur (thigh bone), possibly related to a longstanding injury associated with a game of squash. “He had a surgical operation performed by a team of specialist doctors, including Dr. Wallace Ogufere (Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon); Dr. Om Lahoti (Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon); Dr. Babajide Lawson (Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon); Dr. Ken Adegoke (Consultant in Anaesthesia & Critical Care); Dr. Oladimeji Agbabiaka (Consultant Anaesthetist); and Dr Adedoyin Dosunmu-Ogunbi (Consultant Physician & Medical Director). “The operation was successful, and he is expected to be discharged within the next few days.”   By Johnbosco Agbakwuru Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is reportedly hospitalized as a result of recurrent pain in the leg said to have been sustained from an injury while playing squash. This was disclosed via a tweet by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of… In "News" Professor Yemi Osinbajo VICE President Yemi Osinbajo has been hospitalized for a surgical procedure on account of recurrent pain in the leg. This was disclosed on Twitter by Mr. Laolu Akande, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.  He wrote, "VP… In "Health" A support group for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, operating under the aegis of Movement for Better Nigeria,has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to mobilize support for him to emerge as the All Progressives Congress,APC consensus candidate ahead of 2023 general election. In "News"