Capital One City Parks Foundation, an independent non-profit organization in New York, USA, is hosting its annual outdoor music festival tagged “SummerStage” this summer from June until October. They will showcase an Afrobeat show in Central Park, New York on August 14, 2022 starting at 6pm. SummerStage is one of New York’s most beloved, broadly accessible, free outdoor performing arts festivals presenting free live performances, spanning all genres. Headlining the show are top Afrobeats sensations; Patoranking, Flavour N’abania, Juls, Superherd DJ Jon Quick and a host of African and international music stars. Over the years, SummerStage has assembled some of the world’s leading music icons who exude diverse music styles and cultural offerings ranging from jazz, hip hop, Latin, global, indie and contemporary dance to engage fans from all over the city – and the world – and the 2022 season will continue that legacy. In a press release, the Executive Artistic Director of SummerStage, Erika Elliott stated: “New York is the quintessential global city, and the place we have been proud to call home for more than three decades. SummerStage brings renowned artists and rising stars from around the world to local neighborhood parks, presenting distinctly New York genres — salsa, jazz, and hip hop — alongside indie, reggae, Afrobeat, soul, modern dance, and much more. “We turn local parks into dynamic and accessible performance spaces. There truly is no better place to experience music than amongst the trees in this iconic spot. Come watch legendary artists and also discover emerging stars that would be performing live at the event.” Abass Akeju, a media executive and founder of prime music partners also stated that he is excited working with the organisation and bringing Afrobeats sounds on the global stage.    Fast rising music star, shizem has released an Afrobeats song dubbed, "No Body". The mid-tempo groove is a blend of modern Afrobeat rhythm and soothing eulogies. Born in Lagos state Nigeria, Denzel Oluwafemi Adeniyi aka "Shizem" is a New York-based Nigerian afro fusion singer, songwriter, performer, dancer and filmmaker. He is… In "Entertainment" By Japhet Davidson It was a classic fixture of the old and new tunes as seasoned jazz exponents thrilled fans at the 2022 Nigeria’s premier and most popular jazz fiesta - The Lagos International Jazz festival which took place recently in Lagos. This year's festival was a return of the… In "News" The global village now enjoys the sounds emanating from Nigeria and yearns for more. Nigerian Artistes on their part are leaving no stone unturned in serving it hot for the global audience who have fully accepted afrobeat. The Nigerian music industry continues to blossom with the arrival of new acts… In "Entertainment"