Level 2 House has emerged as the winner of this week’s wager presentation in the BBNaija S7 “Level Up” house. The feisty and interesting battle between both houses was held on Friday night as the housemates showed their creativity, talent, as well their presentation skills. After three rounds and a general presentation that featured drama, music, and art, Big Brother adjudged Level 2 House as the most creative on the night over their Level 1 counterparts. Earlier on Monday, contestants from both houses met each other for the first time as the Head of House game was conducted. Level 1 Housemates, Ello Swagg and Bella emerged as the Head and Tail of House respectively. The win ensured that Level 1 housemates would be exempted from possible eviction this week and a pool party experience while Level 2 Housemates had to settle for a Truth and Dare game. There is a new twist to this season’s Big Brother Naija Show as housemates have been split into two sections. The 24 housemates are in two different Levels; houses with different structures, designs, and interior decorations. Level 1 house looks quite urban like an “Island” while Level 2 house is the antithesis; earning the name “Trenches”. The first 12 to make their way into Biggie’s House are called “Level 2” housemates. They are Groovy, Beauty, Khalid, Ilebaye, Cyph, Amaka, Kess, Daniella, Pharmsavi, Phyna, Bryann and Crysty O. The other 12 who joined their fellow housemates in Biggie’s House are called “Level 1” housemates. They are Chi Chi, Chomzy, Sheggz, GiddyFia, Hermes, Diana, Allysyn, Dotun, Adekunle, Dotun, Ello Swagg and Bella. The battle continues as housemates jostle for the 100 million prize in ten weeks.    Eloswag, one of the “Level 1” housemates of the ongoing television reality show, Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) has emerged the head of house for the first week in the house. This was announced by Biggie, the coordinator of the show upon the completion of the head of house task on… In "Entertainment" It was an excitement galore as the housemates of the Big Brother Naija season 7 Level Up edition staged their first pool party in the reality TV show. In "Entertainment" Creative personality and BBNaija alumnus, Elozonam Ogbulu is set to have exclusive conversations with evicted BBNaija Level Up Housemates on the first-ever BBNaija Eviction Vodcast. In "Entertainment"