Controversial Nollywood actor, Uche Maduagwu, on Monday, shocked and surprised his fans again when he declared that he is gay and no one can take that identity away from him. Uche’s open declaration on social media is coming barely one year after denying his sexuality when he publicly denied being gay. In a post on his Instagram page, Uche said he was only fighting for the LGBT community and this has made him lose movie roles, several endorsement deals and his girlfriend. However, the actor made a U-turn on Monday while condemning the Sharia court ruling that sentenced a man in Bauchi to death for being gay. In his words; “I was arrested, beaten for 3 hours and told to deny being Gay…I am 1000% GAY not even buhari can take away my Jesus given identity #ImpeachBadPresident” He wrote: Dear President Joe Biden, we need the US government to sanction President Buhari and his top advisers over ignoring the Fundamental Human rights of #LGBT in Nigeria, just few days ago, a Sharia court sentence #Gay men to be STONED, is this our country a #Democracy or #Banana Republic? “Yet, our President and his CORRUPT ministers kept quiet, he keeps traveling to different developed countries like KUNU Mosquito, yet he never borrow wisdom from these countries RESPECT for Human Right. “The same set of people who gives judgement for Gay people to be STONED are the same that takes laws into their hands all in the name of Christian blasphemy on Mohammed, when will this madness stop?    By Benjamin Njoku Controversial Nollywood actor, Uche Maduagwu has said that D'banj's biggest mistake in life was parting ways with his former business partner, Michael Collins Ajereh, better known as Don Jazzy. D'banj and Don Jazzy co-founded the now-defunct record label Mo’ Hits Records in 2004. The superstars announced their… In "Entertainment" Controversial Nollywood actor, Uche Maduagwu, on Monday, shocked and surprised his fans when he announced that he lied about himself being gay. In "Entertainment" Controversial Nollywood actor, Uche Maduagwu, on Monday, shocked and surprised his fans when he announced that he lied about himself being a gay. Maduagwu took to his official Instagram account @uchemadagwu to announce to his fans and Nigerians that he lied about his gay status. He wrote, “Dear fans I… In "Entertainment"