Afrobeats superstar singer, Stanley Omah Didia popularly known as Omah Lay has revealed his delightful experience working with American Grammy-winning global pop star, Justin Bieber. Omah Lay said their friendship started after he put out his first project ‘Get Layd’ EP in 2020. Justin Beiber texted him on Instagram and followed him as both singers became friends; establishing a great relationship. Attention ft. Justin Bieber is one of the hit tracks off Omah Lay’s debut album “Boy Alone”. He revealed that while working with an international music superstar such as Justin Bieber could be such a difficult possibility, it is actually his easiest collaboration to date. I just sent a song, he loved the song and sent back a verse,” Omah Lay said while sharing how the song “Attention” came about. Omah Lay’s highly anticipated debut album ‘Boy Alone’ was released on July 15th, 2022. It has been described by critics and fans to be a bold, honest, and perfectly curated project. In a display of the connection between the two talented music stars, Omah Lay has performed the single alongside Justin Bieber on his 2022 ‘Justice Tour’. The revelation is another huge win for Afrobeats as the genre is gaining palpable international recognition, fame, success as well as respect and acknowledgment that will further position Nigerian superstars for global success.   Afrobeats superstar singer, Omah Lay has released his debut album titled "Boy Alone" after months of anticipation. The 14-track album features American pop-star, Justin Bieber in "Attention" and Tay Iwar in "Tell Everybody". Omah Lay has previously released two EPs- "Get Layd" and "What Have We Done". YBNL Superstar Singers,… In "Entertainment" By Chinasa Afigbo ''Woman'' is a mid-tempo enchanting love song from one of Nigeria’s fast-racing artistes Omah Lay, who spiked the music industry during the arid period of 2020 Covid-19 lockdown with his debut EP ‘Get Layd’. ‘Get Layd’ was the scintillating 5-track EP that tilted the beams of stardom… In "Entertainment" A team member of Omah Lay has dismissed reports of a dispute between the singer and Burna Boy, stating that there was never a misunderstanding between both artistes and that Omah’s post on his stories was just for laughs. Omah Lay had on Wednesday while in a question and answer… In "Entertainment"