By Anayo Okoli THE PresidentGeneral of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. George Obiozor, has frowned at the recent political developments in the country, which he said have clearly shown that Nigeria does not want Ndigbo as part of it. Obiozor was reacting to the outcome of the recent presidential primary elections in which the two major political parties, the All Progressive Congress, APC, and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, were said to have deliberately schemed out aspirants from the South-East despite their huge contributions to the parties. The Ohanaeze leader who is in Dubai attending to his health, said from what happened at the parties’ primaries, it was clear that “some Nigerian leaders have demonstrated gross historic injustice towards Ndigbo, beyond our expectations”. Read Also: Buhari has shown his administration won’t release Nnamdi Kanu —Ohanaeze He blamed this on “Nigerian national political elites” who are bent on ensuring the continued marginalization of the Igbo in the scheme of things in Nigeria. Obiozor, in a statement, entitled, “what does Nigeria want from Ndigbo”, stated that Nigeria has failed to be fair, just and fair to Ndigbo.” He, however, urged Ndigbo not to “lament much but wait for the verdict of history”, assuring that “in the end, this political manipulation will end in a pyrrhic victory for those who rejoice and celebrate injustice”.  He thanked all the Nigerian statesmen and patriots across the country, who supported the idea for the South East to produce the President of Nigeria in 2023, based on the Nigerian proven history of rotation of power between the North and the South as well as a commitment to equity, justice and fairness. “The President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Ambassador Professor George Obiozor has reacted to the presidential nominations by the mainstream political parties, namely the All Peoples Congress, APC, and the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP. Now, it is clear that the Nigerian national political elite has successfully orchestrated to deny the South-East an opportunity to produce the president of Nigeria come 2023. “By this machination, some Nigerian leaders have demonstrated gross historic injustice towards Ndigbo, beyond our expectations”, Obiozor said, in a statement made available by Ohanaeze spokesman, Dr. Alex Chidozie Ogbonnia According to him,”our country, Nigeria, by their deliberate injustice has failed the Rotary Club International four-way tests, which are truth, fairness, goodwill and better friendship; and whether it is beneficial to all concerned. “For Ndigbo, I urge us not to lament much but wait for the verdict of history. In the end, this political manipulation will end in a Pyrrhic victory for those who rejoice and celebrate injustice. “I want to also use this opportunity to appreciate all those Nigerian statesmen and patriots across the country, who supported the idea for the South East to produce the president of Nigeria in 2023, based on Nigerian proven history of rotation of power between the North and the South as well as a commitment to equity, justice and fairness”.   Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, has slammed the All Progressives Congress and the People’s Democratic Party for not zoning their presidential tickets to the southeast. In "Politics" 2023: We didn't say we 'll work against Atiku Abubaka - Ohanaeze Ndigbo In "News" Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, weekend, expressed disappointment over the alleged display of misconduct by the President General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo World-wide, Prof George Obiozor during the conduct of the last All Progressive Congress, APC, presidential primary election in Abuja. In "News"