The Minister of Youth and Sports, Chief unday Dare, has maintained that he is not against the purported agenda of the President, Nigeria Football Federation, Mr Amaju Pinnick, to seek a third term in office. However, he said the decision of the NFF congress would reign supreme on the matter when they convene in September.The Minister, who spoke at an interactive session with journalists in Abuja, said the government has played its part to ensure that the forthcoming elections of the apex football organisation in Nigeria is rancour free and acceptable by stakeholders. Dare said, “I am not against Pinnick’s ambition, though he has never told me that he is contesting but I have listened to interviews where he said he is not contesting. “So, on the basis of that I am saying the right thing should be done. There has been so much crisis over the years and that has necessitated President Buhari to insist that an election should be held on or before September, with major stakeholders being carried along to forestall any recurrence of what we had in the past. “We have done our part as government institution, but now it is now left for NFF congress to decide their faith,” he concluded.   By Luminous Jannamike, Abuja Ahead of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) elections, stakeholders on Saturday evening commended the federal government for intervening to avert another round of crisis in the nation's football circle.  They noted that, over the years, Nigeria's football fraternity has always been blighted by crisis before and… In "Sports" Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Hon. Sunday Dare on Wednesday charged the new Head Coach of Super Eagles, José Santos Peseiro to make the squad a blend of the very best of professional players based at home and abroad, saying the Ministry will assist in the rebuilding process by… In "Sports" President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the Nigeria Football Federation(NFF) to immediately commence the process that will lead to holding new elections into its Executive Committee at the expiration of the current administration in September. President Buhari also directed that the instrument of football administration in the country, the NFF Statutes… In "Sports"