Former Big Brother Naija Housemate, Maria Benjamin Chike, has refuted claims that she snatches people’s husbands. The housemate in a series of tweets on Sunday said she had been quiet on the issue because she was respecting other people involved. Maria also debunked rumours of her sleeping with married men, including a pastor. She wrote, “My Dear Nigerians, I understand we live in such a hypocritical world and everyone is a saint unless you’re in the public eye then your shi* stinks the most. I adore marriage and wish all those in a HAPPY marriage nothing but luck, I love and respect the idea of one man to one woman. “I’m going to address this once and only this once. I’ve been quiet on the whole husband snatcher issue. I DID NOT ruin any home. My silence is for the best of so many people involved. That I haven’t said my piece doesn’t make me weak. I am respecting so many people involved and their privacy. “ And for the rumours of me sleeping with several married men, including a pastor , WE both laughed at it cause we literally breathe each other’s air day in day out and no room for dishonesty. “When and if I ever start doing “runs” not that I have any intentions of this or knock anyone off their hustle but my man does look after me and my family are also very much okay to look after me and I work my ass off to look after myself. And also if I ever chop breakfast, I’ll chop it with ice cream.” And I’m going to address this once and only this once, I’ve been quite on the whole husband snatcher issue, I DID NOT ruin any home, my silence is for the best of so many people involved. That I haven’t said my peace doesn’t make me weak, I am respecting so many people involved    The Big Brother Naija ‘shine ya eyes’ reunion is getting more intense than expected. This is as housemate Maria was dragged by Angel for her relationship affair with a married man. Angel Smith who's still hurt after hearing all that was said and done behind her while she was in… In "Entertainment" By David Royal One of the most talked-about BBNaija season 6 housemates, Akpore Boma, has asserted that 98% of married men in Nigeria have girlfriends. Boma, who was allegedly romantically involved with a married housemate, Tega Offiong Dominic-Ajebo, in the BBNaija season 6, made this known during the reunion show… In "Entertainment" The Big Brother Naija 'Shine Ya Eye' Reunion show will Premiere today at 10pm on all selected Africa Magic platforms. Viewers and fans across Africa have been patiently waiting to see all their favourite housemates again during the reunion show. According to the organisers of the show, it will be… In "Entertainment"