We are happy to announce the commencement of the Binance BCAT2022 Tour scheduled to commence on the 4th of June, 2022 in Eastern Nigeria. BCAT which is short for Blockchain and Cryptocurrency Awareness Tour is a program, an awareness campaign with the goal of bringing the awareness of the many opportunities abounding in the digital economy to the multitudes of Africans across the continent. BCAT Africa began in 2019 as the CampusBCAT movement by CryptoTvplus. A campaign with the goal of spreading blockchain education to those to whom it matters most; Nigerian students in tertiary institutions.  Throughout 2019, the team traveled across four (4) Nigerian universities reaching out to students, and exposing them to the numerous opportunities in the digital space. In 2020, the BCAT was held online due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Since its inception, BCAT Africa has reached out to over 60,000 Nigerians since inception. Africa has over a billion people in more than 50 countries, and it is a continent with one of the relatively largest youth populations. It is filled with a vast amount of natural resources, yet many people are impoverished and sustained on foreign aid.There is a need to take advantage of the resources around and create prosperous society for Africans. Aside from natural resources, the internet offers a lot of opportunities Africans can leverage to build a more prosperous life and society. With the vision of empowering millions of Africans through education, BCAT Africa is poised to give Africans across the Continent knowledge of the digital economy beyond Nigeria campuses. To help people to know the numerous opportunities the internet offers, unlock innate potentials, and empower them to take advantage of the resources, tools, and opportunities the digital economy offers. Binance is the world’s leading blockchain ecosystem and digital exchange. Binance has played a pivotal role in building the global blockchain and cryptocurrency industry and continues to drive growth, and adoption in the industry.  The Binance BCAT Africa 2022 Tour is starting from South Eastern Nigeria and will be going across Africa. Nations BCAT intends to journey to in its awareness tour include but is not limited to Uganda, Kenya, Ghana, South Africa, Tanzania, Cameroon, etc. Binance BCAT Africa 2022 South East, Nigeria Edition is slated for the 4th of June, 2022. The time is 8 AM UTC. With a wide range of speakers and special guests across the African continent and outside the continent, with deep experience in managing businesses, capacity building, and transforming nations, Binance BCAT Africa 2022 Tour South East Edition is set to create a volcanic eruption of creativity that will spur prosperity amongst Africans.  They are; Binance BCAT Africa 2022 is proudly sponsored by Binance, Xend Finance, and Sportrex. Other sponsors are Leadwallet, BoundlessPay, Revoland, BOB Ecosystem, House Africa, Quiva, Wicrypt. Register for the event here. The Binance BCAT Africa South East Edition is to be held at the Amadeo Event Centre, Enugu, Nigeria. Binance BCAT Africa 2022 is powered by CryptoTvplus & Earnathon Follow us across our various platforms Website: bcatafrica.orgSocial:  Twitter: twitter.com/campusbcathq Instagram: instagram.com/campusbcathqFacebook: facebook.com/campusbcat Linkedin: linkedin.com/campusbcatTelegram: t.me/officialctvplus  Email: hello@cryptotvplus.com