Big Brother Naija star, and season five winner, Olamilekan Massoud, known professionally as Laycon has lamented after he was not part of the artistes nominated for the 2022 Headies Music Award. The organisers of the award released a long-anticipated list of nominees for 2022 on Tuesday, 24 May. There are some first-timers who made it through like Magixx, Portable alongside many fast-rising artistes However, Wizkid’s “Essence” and Ayra Starr’s “Bloody Samaritan” got multiple nominations. Laycon who’s a Nigerian media personality, rapper, singer and songwriter, in a series of tweets on Tuesday stated that despite working hard on his music career in the past year, he felt “some type of way” after none of his works clinched a nomination. He tweeted “I have never been a fan of judging people with the adjective ‘BEST’. However, I see awards as a compliment; something to tell you, ‘Hey! We see everything you’ve done and we think you should get this for your efforts’. “This doesn’t mean every other person didn’t put in work! Even TV stations, radio stations, OAPs etc. get ‘awards’ for their efforts, which doesn’t take away from the work every media body or personnel put into growing the industry, to be honest. “But when you work hard and you feel like you don’t get recognition for your work, your emotions set in.” Laycon went further to say, “A lot of people think I don’t deserve half of what I have and what I’m getting, so I’ve had to do double of whatever it is you’re supposed to do in this industry. “Still on still, I appreciate the awards, the ones I have gotten and the ones I’m yet to have. And when I don’t get them, I feel some type of way because that’s how it is meant to be, you wanna be acknowledged for what you’ve done, but not everybody will win an award! “But what matters is you and the gift you have. Use it and use it well, change lives and impact your society, that’s the real award. Congratulations to the nominees of the Headies, and congratulations to the organizers. I go wear another big shoe come this year.” Laycon has a lot of songs but the most famous of it all is the one titled “Fierce”, featuring Chinko Ekun and Reminisce released in the year 2019, most people love the song, and it is the most talked-about song of Laycon among all. Vanguard News Nigeria