By Mary Obaebor Corporate lawyer cum children’s rights advocate, Mrs. Bola Tinubu, has launched a new children’s book, ‘Bisi is the boss.’ A seasoned corporate lawyer with over 25 years of practice, she also founded Nigeria’s first free child helpline. The book provides an interesting take on child sexual education through an interactive and exciting storyline packed with fun trivia, colourful characters and valuable lessons. In a society that has an alarming rate of Child Sexual Violence, the book raises important issues on child abuse and how best to handle it and protect children from sexual predators. It also provides parents with a fun yet educative way to navigate delicate topics regarding private body parts, establishing boundaries and speaking up in the case of abuse. Being an.advocate of children’s rights and a mother, Mrs.  Tinubu established the Cece Yara non-profit organisation in 2016 staffed with a multi-disciplinary team of counsellors, social workers, child advocates, lawyers and forensic interviewers to prevent child sexual abuse and to provide access to care, information, protection and emergency intervention for children who have experienced sexual abuse or who are at risk. “Bisi Is The Boss is a book about child safety and protection. It empowers children and their care givers by teaching children about how to recognize boundaries, how to react, who their trusted adults are, and how to get help. Empowering children is a great step towards breaking the cycle of child sexual abuse, and my aim is to get this book into the hands of every Nigerian child no matter what their circumstances are,” she stated. ‘Bisi Is The Boss’ amounts to an all-encompassing read not only simplifying the difficult subject of abuse but also providing a bonding platform between guardians and the children in their care. The storyline follows Bisi, a well-informed little girl, who teaches young children through this important book how to identify inappropriate behaviour  and create body boundaries. The author is also a  Chartered Director, a Chartered Governance Professional, and a Chartered Secretary. She is also a Fellow of The Chartered Governance Institute, U.K., and a Fellow of the Institute of Directors, U.K. She was one of the BBC 100 inspiring and Influential women in 2018 and was named as one of Nigeria’s 100 most inspiring women in 2019 by Leading Ladies Africa.