Popular crossdresser Okuneye Idris Olarenwaju aka Bobrisky has claimed that his ex-bestie, Tonto Dikeh is being ungrateful after years of good friendship. The crossdresser also claimed that the actress was arrested in Dubai for smoking weed in 2019. Taking to Instagram Bobrisky said: “We stopped talking in 2020. If I can remember well, then, I was your heaven on earth. “Fast forward to your arrest in Dubai Tonto.You insulted the Dubai police because you were drunk and high. “I tried my best to control you back then and I couldn’t. Dubai police locked you up for a good two days in their cell. “Nobody knew where you were locked up.I was busy crying, calling people I know in Dubai to look for where you were locked up. “After two days, you were released and the police collected your phone and weed they caught with you and charged you to court. “I removed my SIM card and gave you my phone just to make sure you quickly post some pictures on your page so that Stella and other blogs won’t laugh at us. “I paid for our hotel bills, feeding. We were stuck in Dubai for three months, all your mouth, you had no one to save your ass. Even your so-called boyfriends then stopped picking your calls cause you were giving them so much headache, I was the only soul who stood by you. “Fast forward to (name withheld) paid me then to influence for her. She got angry and asked me to refund her cause I was with you in Dubai instead of doing her job. READ ALSO: “I begged that lady to send some of the hair to me in Dubai so that i can be working since I was stuck with you in Dubai “I was with you for three months. Then you didn’t see me as a bad friend. You were wearing all my gowns I bought to wear in Lagos. Just because you didn’t come with enough clothes, till now, many are still with you. “I have you 1 million to add to the fine Dubai Police gave you for seeing you with weed. “Tonto, after two months, your rent in Abuja was due, your estate payment was due, your son needed some money to feed. We agreed that after the third month, I will fly back to Abuja to sort those bills for you. I flew back to Abuja and I bob sorted all those bills for you. “Even if I Bob had wronged you, is that how you were supposed to [pay me? YOU ARE UNGRATEFUL that is why no man wants to stay with you because you are bitter. How many friends can go this length to support a friend? Don’t lie to yourself. “Whenever you are going to Abuja, I will escort you with my best car to pick you up just to give you a queen or king treat. Tonto you are a loser.” Meanwhile, Tonto Dikeh in a separate post shared on her Instagram page debunked the claims by Bobrisky. According to her, she was arrested for illegal filming and abusing a security officer in Dubai and not for smoking of weed. Vanguard News Nigeria